School of Computer Science Engineering & Technology (SCSET)
Academic Rules for Undergraduate Programs
1. Short Title & Commencement
These regulations shall be called regulations for the UG programs in School of Computer Science
Engineering and Technology (SCSET) of the University and shall come into force on such a date as the
Executive Council may approve.
2. Duration
The duration of the UG programs leading to degree of B. Tech shall be minimum four years, BCA shall
be minimum three years and B.Sc shall be minimum of three years. However, the duration may be
extended up-to six years from the date of initial registration for B.Tech, up-to five years from the date
of initial registration for BCA and B.Sc. The maximum duration of the programs excludes the period of
withdrawal, due to medical reasons. However, it shall include the period of rustication or any other
reason of discipline /academics e.g., suspension, wilful absence by the student, not getting promotion
to the next class due to poor academic performance etc. Similarly, the minimum duration of four years
shall exclude the period of rustication for a semester or more, or any other disciplinary reason e.g.,
suspension/wilful absence by the student in a semester etc. Under such circumstances the student
shall attend the University for an additional semester or more time, as equated to period of
absence/suspension.
3. Starting or Phasing out of Program
The University may offer such Undergraduate programs leading to award of bachelor’s degrees of B.
Tech, BCA and B.Sc as per nomenclature laid by the UGC regulations on the subject and as may be
approved by the Executive Council. The maximum duration of each program shall be specified and
may be altered in accordance with the recommendations of the Academic Council. A program may be
phased out on recommendations of the Academic Council and approval of the Executive Council, on
account of continuous low registration in the program or any other justifiable reason like becoming
obsolete etc. Similarly, the Executive Council may approve starting of a new program or modifying the
existing one on the recommendations of the Academic Council
4. Admissions
Admission to all UG programs shall be made as per procedure to be approved by the chairman,
Executive Council and may be reviewed periodically as required. Fee structure, refund policy, total
number of seats, reservation policy, and special category seats, e.g., sponsored seats, credit transfer
or direct entry into II year through lateral entry scheme etc. shall be defined in the admission
procedure.
5. Semester System
The B. Tech CSE, BCA and B.Sc programs in the University shall be based on Semester System; namely,
Spring (Even) and Fall (Odd) Semesters, in an academic year. Winter and summer vacations shall be
allowed, as applicable. In addition, few courses may be offered during the vacations, as may be
provided in the regulations. The courses whether offered in regular semester or the summer /winter
semester, shall be evaluated as per the policy and procedure laid down.

6. Semester Duration
A semester will be of approximately 18-20 weeks duration. Of these, 90 days will be available for actual
instructions.
7. Courses
The UG program shall comprise following type of courses
(i) Foundation and Core Courses. These are compulsory courses and mandatory to clear/pass for
award of degree.
(ii) Elective Courses. These courses are offered to augment the studies in specific fields. They may be
interchanged.
(iii) Courses of special nature (like Corporate Internship, Startup Incubation, Preparatory English
Courses, Audit Courses, Self-Study Courses, Seminars, Term papers and Capstone Projects) etc.
(iv) Open Elective Courses. These courses are offered to augment the studies with the knowledge of
other domain apart from the field chosen by the student as electives. These courses may be selected
from any School across the university.
7.1 Corporate Internship
Corporate Internship is a core course, to be done typically during the summer vacations. A student
should undergo corporate internship for 4-6 weeks/14-18 weeks as defined in the curriculum,
preferably in an industry/Start-up or R & D institutions/R&D Labs in India or abroad. Students involved
in entrepreneurial activity may be considered on case to case basis for considering their venture as
internship. Internship shall be graded and essential part of the degree requirement. It is the
responsibility of the placement cell/career advancement services to arrange for internship for all the
students. In the beginning of each academic session, placement cell/career services will prepare a
program wise list of potential training organizations. These organizations will be approached by the
placement cell/career services/external relations department with a request to provide training seats.
Consolidated lists of training offers will be made available to the eligible students in the beginning of
relevant semester of the session. If a student is interested in making his/her own arrangement for the
training seat, he/she will need to have the training organization approved by routing the application
to the Dean, School of Computer Science Engineering and Technology (SCSET).
A student may be allowed to start with the internship in the 7th semester in case of B.Tech and 5th
semester in case of BCA & B.Sc after the internship offer has been analysed by the SCSET and is worth
to be considered useful for the student career and growth. However, the approval of the same shall
be routed through Dean (SCSET) and the process should be completed before the respective semester
starts or maximum within one month after the beginning of the 7th / 5th semester for B.Tech / BCA &
B.Sc respectively. Any other offer received after 20 days shall be evaluated and accommodated on a
case-to-case basis subject to necessary approvals.
The students will be required to get their training activity and results reviewed by organization in
which they have attended the training and obtain comments on the Diary provided by the placement
cell/career services/external relations department. The diary shall be printed under University
arrangement and provided to the students. School shall nominate internship coordinator from

amongst the faculty members. The School will scrutinize the training report and the certificate issued
by the corporate along with any additional assessment to be done at the School level and will award
a grade as per the curriculum. In case the training is considered to be unsatisfactory, a Unsatisfactory’
grade will be awarded and the student shall have to undergo fresh industrial training in part or full
duration as decided by the Dean (SCSET). The industrial training, submission of training report and
obtaining satisfactory grade is mandatory requirement for award of B. Tech/BCA/B.Sc degree.
7.2 Preparatory English Course
Students who score less than 65% in English in class 10+2 at time of admission will be prescribed a
preparatory English Course in the first semester. It will be a regular course and may be conducted as
an Audit Course. The student who is registered for the course is required to get a valid pass grade (NP)
in this course, to be eligible for graduation.
7.3 Audit Courses
Audit facility is open to all students. A student will be permitted to do limited number of audit courses
over and above the graduation requirements. Courses up to maximum of 12 credits from the elective
courses in any category may be completed on audit basis. No credits are given for such courses
towards degree requirements. However, students shall be awarded AU for pass grade which shall be
endorsed in the grade sheet.
7.4 Capstone Project
A capstone project shall be a multifaceted assignment that serves as a culminating academic and
intellectual experience for students, typically during their final year at the University. Capstone
projects may take a wide variety of forms, but they shall be Year/Semester long investigative projects
that culminate in a final product, presentation, or performance. In projects under the guidance of a
faculty member, a final year student is required to do some innovative work with application of
knowledge earned while undergoing various courses and labs in the earlier years. The student is
expected to do literature survey and carry out development and/or experimentation. Through the
project work the student must exhibit both the analytical and practical skills. The student will have to
do his/her project under the guidance of the faculty member from the School unless specifically
permitted by School Dean for alternate arrangements.
The Project shall be treated as a core course for B.Tech. Depending upon the option to be exercised
by the student before commencement of 7th semester, a decision will be taken regarding the duration
and conduct of project. Student may have three options to do the final semester i.e. (i) To do final
semester in the University itself (ii) to do final semester in collaborating Universities/Institutes abroad
(iii) to undertake Internship outside University in India. In case of option 1, the project may be spread
over two regular semesters and in such cases shall comprise Part 1 and Part 2. The allocation of
projects, faculty supervisor, and tentative plan of work and evaluation schedule shall invariably be
notified in separate instructions. In case of two-part project, the Part 2 of the project is expected to
be continuation of Part 1 and shall invariably be conducted in pre-final semesters and final (7th & 8th)
respectively.
Therefore, a student must obtain a satisfactory progress report in Project Part 1, to be eligible for
registering for Part 2. In case a student successfully completes the laid down requirements for part-1,
he/she will accrue the credits and grade as laid down for the pre-final semester and he/she will be
registered for the following regular semester. In case a student gets F grade, he/she shall have to

appear in the same in final semester and only then do the part-2. In case of a single project in 7th/8th
semester, it shall be a comprehensive project to be completed in one semester.
The Project shall be treated as a core course for BCA and B.Sc. It would be a semester long project
taken up by the student in the 6th semester. Student may have three options to do the final semester
i.e. (i) To do final semester in the University itself (ii) to do final semester in some industry as
internship (iii) to work on a start-up project. In case of option 1, the allocation of projects, faculty
supervisor, and tentative plan of work and evaluation schedule shall invariably be notified in separate
instructions.
Therefore, a student must obtain a satisfactory progress report in Project, to be eligible for the degree.
In case a student successfully completes the laid down requirements, he/she will accrue the credits
and grade as laid down in the final semester. In case a student gets F grade, he/she shall have to
register again for the final semester and successfully complete the selected option.
7.5 Self-Study Course / Term Paper
A self-study course or term paper may be offered under special circumstances, from a list of regular
courses of study, to a student in his/her final Semester when he/she is short by a maximum of 6 earned
credits to become eligible for the degree. This course shall be offered only if approved by the Vice
Chancellor, on the recommendation of the Dean (SCSET). These courses shall be offered in an
additional semester after the program, but for a limited duration of 4-6 weeks.
7.6 Seminar
Seminar is a course requirement wherein under the guidance of a faculty member a student is
expected to do an in-depth study in a specialized area by doing literature survey, understanding
different aspects of the problem, and arriving at a status report in that area. While doing a seminar,
the student is expected to learn investigation methodologies, study relevant research papers,
correlate work of various authors/researchers critically, study concepts, techniques, prevailing results
etc., analyse it and present a seminar report. It is mandatory to give a seminar presentation before a
panel constituted for the purpose. The grading is done based on the depth of the work done,
understanding of the problem, report and presentation by the student concerned.
8. Registration
8.1 Every student shall register for the courses that he/she wants to study for earning credits and
his/her name will appear in the roll list of each such course. No credit shall be given if a student attends
a course for which he or she is not registered. The performance of a student in all courses, for which
he/she has registered, shall be included in his/her grade card.
8.2 Registration of courses to be taken in a Semester shall be done according to specific schedule
announced by the Registry. In-absentia registration shall not be allowed. Under special circumstances,
the students may be allowed late registration by the Dean (SCSET), till a specified date, by paying a
late fee fixed by the University along with other necessary fees. Normally, late registration beyond 7
days shall not be allowed without sanction from the Vice Chancellor.
8.3 At the time of fee payment and before commencement of the semester, the Registrar shall give
each student a registration record, which shall be the official record of the courses registered.

Students must ensure correctness of same as they shall be awarded grades in the registered courses,
irrespective of his/her claim to have registered or not registered for the course.
8.4 Those students who join UG programs in first year shall complete the registration procedure on a
specific registration date(s), prior to the commencement of their classes.
8.5 Credit Restriction is subject to the restriction that may be imposed by the course structure,
curricula or other factors, a student may normally register for the allotted credits of the upcoming
semester (with a minimum of 15 credits) and a maximum of 26 credits. But Dean (SCSET) may allow a
student to register for a maximum of 28 credits. Students who have opted for honours/minor may be
allowed up to a maximum of 30 credits. However, students under load restriction or load monitoring
criteria shall be governed by the rules for such students. University may however review these
restrictions under sanction of the Vice Chancellor in exceptional cases.
8.6 Registration Methodology for the Courses in various Semesters, depending upon slots availability.
Priority-1. Back log courses
Priority -2 Foundation/ Core Courses of the semester.
Priority-3. Other electives on offer as per the curricula structure.
It shall be responsibility of the student to plan and register for the backlog courses as and when
offered. The timetable shall be drawn based on the core and electives courses offered during the
semester. Back log courses shall be registered in free slots available in the timetable under
responsibility of student under guidance of faculty mentor. The timetable shall be announced well
before the registration dates so that students are able to make conscious choices after taking advice
from the faculty mentors.
8.6.1 A student may however, register for lesser courses than the total credits available in the
semester in the range of 15 to 26 except where additional credits are allowed.
8.6.2 Pre-requisites: A student shall not be permitted to register for a course unless he/she passes the
course, which is a pre-requisite to that course, if specified.
8.7 Add / Drop of Courses:
A student shall have the option to add-on or withdraw from Registered courses in a semester within
one week of the beginning of the semester (i.e., after the classes start). A student may be allowed to
withdraw from a course up to two weeks before the end of Semester. For this purpose, the student
must submit his/her application on a prescribed form, available in the Academic Section of the
University after taking approvals from Dean.
8.8 Faculty Mentor:
At the time of completing the registration form or any subsequent change in the registration, every
student shall consult his/her faculty adviser/nominated mentor who shall be appointed by the School.
The minimum and the maximum numbers of total credits in the context of his/her past performance,
backlog of courses, GPA and individual interest should be explained to the students.

8.9 Minimum Number of Students to be Registered in a Course:
An undergraduate elective course shall normally run only if there is a minimum registration of 5
students in that course. However, exceptional cases may be approved by the Vice Chancellor.
8.10 Specialization Choice
A student may be allowed to select his/her specialization while registering for the 3rd semester in case
of B.Tech./BCA/B.Sc programs. Students would be given sufficient time to analyse their interests and
the prospects of each specialization. They will be allowed to familiarize with each of the specializations
through the orientation session. Therefore, once the student has registered for the specialization, no
further requests for change shall be accommodated. However, if a seat becomes vacant in a
specialization due to some withdrawal case, a student may be accommodated in that specialization
after necessary approvals from Dean (SCSET). A specialization shall be run for a particular batch only
if there are a minimum of 5 students in that specialization. Less than 5 students in a particular
specialization would be accommodated in the respective specialization according to their second
preference. However, exceptions may be considered with the approval of Vice chancellor on the
recommendation of Dean, SCSET
9. Course Coordinator
Every course offered shall be coordinated by a Course Coordinator appointed by the Dean of the
School. The Course coordinator shall have full responsibility for the course. He/she shall coordinate
the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course in respect of their participation in various
activities related to the course including teaching, attendance, evaluation through written tests,
quizzes, assignments, as may be laid out in detailed course outline document, and the award of the
grades. Course Coordinators shall also be required to prepare and issue/upload on LMS, the detailed
course outline document / syllabi to the students before the commencement of semester. The
students may approach course coordinator for any assistance.
10. Course Codes
Each course offered by the University shall be identified by a course code. The course codes shall be
allocated by the Registrar’s Office/or authority so designated.
11. Detailed Course Outline:
At the beginning of each semester, the course coordinator/teacher concerned will circulate a detailed
course outline document of the course on the first day of the start of the semester to motivate the
students. It will comprise the following:
(i) Title
(ii) Course Code
(iii) Pre-requisites
(iv) Contact Hours (L-T-P) and credits

(v) Objective(s)
(vi) Learning Outcomes
(vii) Course Outline
(viii) Equivalent course – if any.
(ix) Methodology/Conduct of Course/Detailed Course Plan.
(x) Evaluation Scheme
(xi) Text and reference books
Further, these details shall also be provided/available on the Learning Management System for
reference by the students.
12. Credit System
Each course, except a few special courses, has a certain number of credits assigned to it depending
upon its lecture, tutorial and/or laboratory contact hours in a week. A member of the faculty, called
the Course Coordinator, coordinates each course. He/she has the full responsibility for coordinating
the course, coordinating the work of other members of the faculty involved in that course, holding the
tests, and awarding the grades. In case of any difficulty, the student is expected to approach the course
coordinator for advice and clarification.
A letter grade, corresponding to specified number of grade points, is awarded in each course for which
a student is registered. On obtaining a pass grade, the student accumulates the course credits as
earned credits. A student’s performance is measured by the number of credits that he/she has earned
and by the weighted grade point average. A minimum number of credits should be acquired to qualify
for the programs.
13. Credit Assignment
(i) Lectures/Tutorials: One lecture/tutorial hour per week during the semester is assigned one credit.
(ii) Practical’s: One laboratory hour per week per semester is assigned half credit.
(iii) Thus a 3-1-2 course shall have 5 credits.
(iv) However, some courses may be of preparatory nature and have half the credit weightage of a
normal course while a few courses are without credit and are referred to as noncredit (NC) courses.
14. Earned Credits (EC)
The credits assigned to a course in which a student has obtained ‘D’ (minimum passing grade) or a
higher grade will be counted as credits earned by him/her. Any course in which a student has obtained
F, or W or “I” grade will not be counted towards his/her earned credits.

15. Examination /Evaluation System
The evaluation system of the University shall be oriented to encourage the academic qualities listed
in section 1 above. The University follows a continuous evaluation policy. This is to train the student
to put in sustained and disciplined work over the entire period of study. Teacher may decide on the
evaluation components subject to general guidelines of the University. As a general guideline, there
shall be two written examinations i.e., Mid Term and an End Term Examination for theory courses.
The end semester exam should be in range of maximum 35-50% marks. It includes End term theory
and Lab components. The written examinations shall be conducted under arrangement Controller of
Examination.
However, for the lab-oriented courses, the Mid Term and End Term Examination may be replaced with
appropriate assessment components.
As general Guidelines following shall be adopted:
15.1 Teachers Assessment:
All theory courses shall have teachers’ assessment component, the weightage of which shall be
decided by the teacher . The assessment can be structured by the concerned faculty and conducted
continuously during the semester. Teachers Assessment (TA) may be based on Assignments, Quizzes,
Homework, and Tutorials etc. awarded by the Course Coordinator/respective teacher.
15.2 Practical/Clinical Courses:
The examination/evaluation criteria of the practical/Clinical courses shall be decided by the respective
course coordinator and wherever required on the availability of the external experts/visiting faculty.
Faculty may set/design the practical exercises out of any marks, but the overall weightage shall be in
pre-defined percentage, which the concerned faculty/course coordinator shall announce in the first
class of the semester and upload on the LMS. Methodology for evaluation of Lab component may
include day to day work, lab records, quantity/quality of work and Viva/Seminar/Practical as may be
decided.
15.3 Mid /End Semester Examination:
These examinations shall be conducted under Controller of Examination. The examination dates and
schedule shall be released by the University’s Controller of Examination.
15.4 Similar division of marks may be created for special courses like Capstone Projects, seminars,
term papers, internship etc. by the school but same shall also be predefined.
15.5 Division of marks
Each course shall be evaluated out of some total of 100 Marks. Faculty may set the papers out of any
marks, but the overall weightage shall be in pre-defined percentage which the concerned
faculty/course coordination shall announce in the first class of the semester and also load on the LMS.
15.6 Grading System for Courses:
(i) Students obtaining grades O to D shall be declared pass. Students failing to meet the minimum cut
off marks in the subject will be awarded F grade. The range of F grade would be from 0 to 29 marks

(minimum) and the range for D grade shall start from 30 marks onwards for all the courses. These are
the minimum thresholds an individual may be higher for individual courses or for the school.
(ii) The grades shall be decided on the aggregate of evaluation of all the components as per defined
weightage.
(iii) The grading shall be based on relative grading method as decided by the coordinator for the
course.
15.7 Grading for failing to meet Attendance Requirement:
(i) A student is required to attend all the classes.
(ii) If the attendance profile of a student is unsatisfactory (as given in the rules in subsequent
paragraphs, he/she will be debarred. Any student, who has been awarded X grade because of being
debarred due to attendance shortage, shall not be allowed to take the supplementary Examination.
The student shall have to register for the course in the regular semester when offered as a backlog
course.
16. Make Up Examinations (For Mid Term only)
A student may apply for a makeup examination where he/she is not able to attend the examination
schedule due to reasons of personal medical condition or compassionate reason like death of a very
close relative. No other contingencies are acceptable. Except in case of medical emergency, a student
needs to seek advance approval from appropriate authority before missing the Examination. Following
rules shall govern the makeup examinations:
16.1 Theory Courses:
(i) A student missing Mid Term Examination only shall be required to take a make-up Examination. No
makeup examination is allowed for end semester examination and policy for same is laid down
separately.
(ii) The students must put-up the request for make-up Examination along with the medical documents
to prove the genuineness of the case (for having missed the Examination) within 5 days of last date of
Examination.
(iii) The students who miss the Examination due to medical reason must attach the opinion of the
University Medical Officer (UMO) after showing all medical documents to him/her.
(iv) The genuineness shall be reviewed and approved by the Vice Chancellor, whose decision shall be
final.
(v) The make-up Examination shall be held between Mid Term & End Semester Examination and the
dates shall be notified in the academic calendar.
(vi) In case a student misses the make-up Examination also, then no further chance will be provided.
(vii) The duration of Examination shall be as decided by the Faculty/course coordinator.
(viii) Genuine approved cases shall be notified by the Controller of Examination based on the requests
received and only such students shall be allowed to take make-up Examination in the subjects where
approval has been granted.

(ix) The date sheet need not be taken out as the makeup examination shall be conducted under
arrangement concerned faculty, who after evaluation and sharing the evaluated answer sheet with
student shall submit marks to the Registrar .
16.2 Makeup of End Semester Examination
It is mandatory to appear for the end semester major examination to obtain any grade for a course. A
student who misses the end semester major examination shall follow a similar procedure as outlined
above, to obtain approval of the Vice Chancellor to prove genuineness of the case. The student whose
case is approved as genuine shall be awarded “I” Grade in the semester results in the given subject.
The student shall be allowed to appear in the supplementary examination of the said subject.
However, the grades shall be worked out by computing the marks obtained by students in Mid Term
Exams, TA, Lab, and supplementary examination (equated to the weightage of end semester
examination). The total marks shall be compared with the marks of the class as in the regular semester
for award of grade.
16.3 Missing Component exam of Laboratories/Projects
If a student misses out any component of examinations or the events for the Labs/projects/
viva/scheduled examination which is part of teacher’s assessment on specified dates they must put
up the request, to the Dean (SCSET) for Lab and supervisor for Project courses to allot alternate
date(s). The requests shall be put up by the supervisors to the Dean (SCSET), who shall verify the case
and provide alternate date(s), if considered genuine. Dean may seek views from the UMO in cases of
medical reasons. The decision of Dean shall be final.
16.4 Makeup of End Semester Viva of Projects
It is mandatory to appear in the final Viva examination to obtain any grade for a project course. In case
of student missing the same for genuine reasons; similar method as given for written examination of
theory courses shall be followed.
16.5 Procedure to be adopted by students in case of missing any of the specified Examination(s).
Following procedure shall be adopted for establishing genuineness of the case.
(A) Action by the student (Medical Cases)
(i) They should report absence from the Examination(s) by fastest possible means to the Controller of
Examination. It could be email or written communication by speed post or sent by hand through any
means. In case of Hosteller’s, if a student falls sick while residing in the hostel, he/she should seek
advice of the University Medical Officer.
(ii) The said report should preferably be sent prior to the Examination, but not later than 5 days after
the last date of the said Examination.
(iii) The student should on re-joining:
(a) Report to the University Medical Officer with complete medical documents to include
referral/Prescription slip of the doctor specifically indicating the disease and medicine prescribed,
investigation/Lab reports and discharge slip in case of admission should be provided.
(b) Obtain his/her views on the genuineness of the case on the proforma available with the Medical
Officer and submit the documents along with the proforma with remarks of the University Medical

Officer to the Registrar/Controller of Examination, not later than 5 days after the last date of
Examination.
(iv) In case of a delay beyond 5 days is anticipated the student should arrange for the medical
documents to be sent to the University Medical Officer by hand through a friend / relative etc. and
get the said genuineness proforma filled-up and deposit the same with the Registrar/Controller of
Examination.
(v) No request later than 5 days after the last date of Examination shall be accepted for reasons of
ignorance or any other reasons.
(B) Action by students (any other reason)
In case the student must miss Examination due to genuine reason other than medical, prior written
sanction of Vice Chancellor and in his absence Dean (SCSET) is mandatory. No post facto requests shall
be accepted in any case. The approval should be deposited with the Registrar /Controller of
Examination before the Examination.
(C) Approving genuineness in each case is prerogative of the Vice Chancellor and student shall have
no right to appeal on the same. Therefore, student should not make an assumption that reporting sick
and obtaining the slip for rest etc. from the Medical Authorities including University Medical Officer is
an adequate reason to exempt them from the examination.
17. Supplementary Examination
17.1 The supplementary examinations shall be held for each commiserating semester in January for
Odd semester and June/July for Even semester respectively . A student may avail second chance of
supplementary examination i.e., in semester immediately succeeding first supplementary exam.
17.2 Eligibility:
Student with ‘F’ grade is eligible to appear in the Supplementary Examination/second supplementary
chance.
17.3 Conduct
(i) Supplementary Examinations shall be held twice in an Academic Session i.e., in Jan (For odd
semester immediately preceding the examination and Even semesters for 2nd supplementary chance).
Similar procedure shall be followed for supplementary and 2nd supplementary examination of Even
semester. The dates shall be announced in the Academic Calendar. The supplementary examination
shall be conducted under COE. The list of eligible students shall be circulated by Controller of
Examination, to enable registration by students.
(ii) The Supplementary Examination shall be of the same duration as end term examination.
(iii) The Supplementary Examinations will cover, the entire syllabus, covered in the semester.
17.4 Grading in supplementary Exam:
Grade shall be determined based on marks obtained by the students in the Supplementary
Examination of the subject only. The maximum grade awarded for the supplementary Examination
shall be up to C+ (grades comprising F, D, C and C+). Those students who get F grade will have (i) option
to appear in 2nd supplementary examination in ensuing semester or (ii) register afresh in the courses,

whenever next available in the regular semester. The students who take supplementary examination
as make up for the end semester major examination shall be awarded regular grades as outlined
above.
17.5 Supplementary for Projects:
There shall be no supplementary examinations for the projects, except make up examination for
missing the final viva as per rules outlined above.
17.6 Treatment of failed students
If a student fails in the both the Supplementary Examinations, he/she shall have to re-register for the
subject, in the immediately following corresponding regular semester, where the subject is on offer.
18 Provision for Summer Term
To assist the students in clearing the backlog courses, an additional Summer Term may be run by the
University, if required, as per the details below.
(i) Parameters:
(a) Duration - Normally 5-6 weeks
(b) Registration for summer courses - Schedule shall be announced by Registrar in consultation with
Dean.
(c) Examinations and Marks - Maximum of two written examination, TA and Lab as required.
(d) Maximum number of courses allowed to be registered by a student - 2
(e) When a student registers for the project course he/she is not entitled to register for any other
course.
(f) Student awarded fail grade or debarred from appearing in end semester examination in spring
(Even) Semester, will also be eligible to opt for Summer Term.
(g) Due to limited duration of summer semester, Late registration shall be allowed up to maximum of
2 days with approval of Dean
(h) Courses offered initially for the summer term may be withdrawn at the discretion of the University,
if the registration in the course is less than 5 students up to 3 days prior to start of the summer term.
(i) The student can register only for the courses which are on offer. The courses shall be decided by
the Dean (SCSET) and then notified well in advance.
(j) Attendance for registered students is mandatory. Attendance rules, as for normal semester, shall
apply for the summer semester also. No deviations in this regard shall be made.
(k) Fee structure shall be notified as approved by the management.
19. General Rules: Examinations
(a) Showing the Answer Scripts. The answer scripts of all written Examinations i.e., Mid Term or end
semester examination or any other written work conducted by a teacher shall be shown to the

students. Students desirous of seeing the marked answer scripts of end Semester Examination, has to
ensure their presence before results are declared, as per dates notified in the Academic Calendar.
(b) Marks/Answer Sheets of all other tests shall also be shared with the students and thus, there shall
be no scrutiny of grades. However, before the grades are forwarded to Controller of Examination, they
should be displayed provisionally and time given to students, to discuss the same with respective
course coordinators/faculty. Changes, if any due to computational errors only, should be incorporated
only after approval of Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee of the University before final results
are forwarded to the Controller of Examination.
(c) No appeal shall be accepted for scrutiny of grades.
(d) Examination Fee for Supplementary. A fee of Rs.1000/- per course or as decided by the
Management from time to time will be charged from the students.
20 Grading System
20.1 Letter Grades which shall be considered/awarded based on student’s marks are as below:
Letter Grade (O) A+ (A) B+ (B) C+ (C) D F
Grade Point 10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 0
20.2 Award of Grades
Students obtaining grades O to D shall be declared pass. O Grade shall be given to a student having
extremely outstanding performance. Students failing in subject will be awarded F grade. The grades
for courses shall be decided on the aggregate marks of all the components of evaluation like written
tests, and Teachers Assessment and Practical’s which shall be evaluated similarly as per the procedure
outlined.
20.3 General Guidelines for the Award of Grades
The following are the general guidelines for the award of grades:
(i) All evaluations of different components of a course shall be done in marks for each student.
(ii) The marks of each component of evaluation shall be reduced to the approved weightage and then
each component added to get total marks on a 100-points scale. The rounding off shall be done on
the higher side.
(iii) The Grades may be awarded by any of the methods as approved by the Academic Council and
generally as a relative grading. The grade boundaries may be decided by the course coordinators.
However, the reason for same may be justified during the grade moderation committee meetings.
(iv) “O” grade shall be awarded in rare cases of extra ordinary performance. Invariably students having
less than 30% marks will be awarded Fail Grade in all the courses.
(v) The provisional grades shall be awarded by the course coordinator. The same shall be moderated
by Grade Moderation Committee at School level.
(vi) The grades should be finalized within time announced in the Academic Calendar. The course
coordinator shall have full responsibility for this purpose.

20.4 The following shall be the structure of grading for academic performance of the students:
Grade Grade Points Description of Performance
O 10 Extra Ordinary Performance
Excellent -Exceptional
A+ 10
Achievement
A 9 Excellent
B+ 8 Very Good
B 7 Good
C+ 6 Above Average
C 5 Average
D 4 Pass
Very Poor
Credit is not earned, and the
F 0 course will not satisfy any
requirements. The course has
to be repeated
Audit Pass. Students failing in
AU - audit course shall not be
awarded any grade.
W - Withdrawal
X - Debarred due to attendance
Incomplete / Continued
I -
Project
20.5 Description of Grades
D Grade
The D grades stands for marginal performance, i.e., it is the minimum passing grade in any course. D
grade shall not be awarded below 40% marks in any course (Applicable for Batch 2022 onwards),
though each teacher may set higher marks for same.
F Grade
The ‘F’ grade denotes a very poor performance, i.e., failing a course. A student has to repeat all courses
in which she/he obtains ‘F’ grade, until a passing grade is obtained. In the case of ‘F’, no Grade points
are awarded. However, the credits of such courses shall be used as denominator for calculation of
GPA or CGPA.
W Grade
The ‘W’ grade is awarded to a student if he/she is allowed to withdraw for an entire Semester from
the University on medical grounds for a period exceeding five weeks.
‘I” Grade
The ‘I’ grade is awarded when the student is allowed additional opportunity like make up Examination
etc. based on which the grade is to be decided along with other components of the evaluation during
the semester.

An incomplete grade of ‘I’ may be given when an unforeseen emergency prevents a student from
completing the work in a course. The ‘I’ must be converted to a performance grade (A to F) within 90
days after the first day of classes in the subsequent regular semester.
X Grade – It is equivalent to Fail grade but awarded due to student falling below the laid down
attendance requirement. Students having X grade shall be required to re-register for the course, when
offered next.
AU Grade The grade denotes that student registered for the audit course has passed the same.
However, no credits are awarded for the audit courses.
21 Grade Moderation
The Grade Moderation Committee of the School for the courses shall comprise the course
coordinators / teachers, connected with the course. This committee shall be responsible for
adherence to the guidelines for the award of grades as decided from time to time. The grades
thereafter shall be moderated at School level, under chairmanship of Dean. The Chairman, Grade
Moderation Committee, will forward the final grades to the Controller of Examination. The Chairman,
Grade Moderation Committee shall also retain the record copies of the marks and the grades along
with the statistical parameters for all the courses moderated and forward a copy of the same to the
Controller of Examination. Note that the remarks for discipline shall be moderated by the Discipline
Committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor and shall follow the laid down parameters for such
purpose.
22 Conversion of grades into percentages
The performance of the student is measured in terms of CGPA (on a 10-point scale). However, on
request from the Indian Industry and oversees University’s querying on percentage obtained by
students, it is essential to provide equated percentage to students on a grade sheet. For this the CGPA
shall be multiplied by 10 and resulting figure rounded off to the second digit.
23 Evaluation of Academic Performance
23.1 The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indices, viz., the Grade Point
Average (SGPA) in a semester (which is the Grade Point Average for a semester) and Cumulative Grade
Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the completed semesters at any point
in time.
Grade Point Average (GPA): The GPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses,
except audit courses, registered for, in the semester and shall be reflected in the semester grade
sheet. It is calculated as below.
(a) Multiply the credits by the points assigned to the grade concerned.
(b) Add the total grade points for all the registered courses of the semester.
(c) Divide the total grade points by the total number of registered credits.
The overall Grade of a student in the program of study upto the end of a particular Semester shall be
called Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). The total grade points scored in different semesters
are added up and divided by the total number of registered credits till then. It indicates the Cumulative
Grade Point Average and shall be reflected in the grade sheets from Semester-2 onwards

An Example of these calculations is given below:
Semester 1
Course No. Course Credits Grade Awarded Earned Credits Grade Points Points Secured
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
SEAS101P 4 C 4 6 24
SEAS103P 4 C 4 6 24
SEAS105L 3 C+ 3 7 21
SEAS107P 4 A 4 10 40
SEAS109L 4 A 4 10 40
SEAS111L 2 A 2 10 20
SEAS113 1 B 1 8 08
Credits registered in the I Semester (total of column 2) = 22
Earned Credits in the I Semester (total of column 4) = 22
Points secured in the I Semester (total of column 6) = 177
SGPA (I Semester) = (177 / 22) = 8.04
CGPA (At the end of I Semester) = Not Applicable
II Semester
Course No. Course Credits Grade Awarded Earned Credits Grade Points Points Secured
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
SEAS102L 4 C+ 4 7 28
SEAS104L 4 F 4 0 0
SEAS106L 4 B 4 8 32
SEAS108P 2 C 2 6 12
SEAS1110L 1 A 1 10 10
SEAS1112L 4 A 4 10 40
SEAS114P 1 C+ 1 7 07
Credits registered in the II Semester (total of column 2) = 20
Earned Credits in the II Semester (total of column 4) = 16
Points secured in the II Semester (total of column 6) = 129
SGPA (II Semester) = (129/20) = 6.45

CGPA (at the end of I Year) = (177 + 129) / (22 + 20) = 7.28
24 Academic Performance Monitoring and Load Restriction
Dean (SCSET) / Faculty mentors should monitor the academic performance of students at the end of
each semester and may put him on load restriction, if required.
25 Conditions for Pass and Progression:
A student would be allowed to continue with the program with following preconditions:
(i) Student should obtain minimum CGPA of 3 on 10-point scale to be promoted to 2nd year.
(ii) For a student to be promoted to 3rd year, it is essential that he/she does not have any backlog
courses of 1st year.
(iii) Maximum duration permitted for completion of program shall be 5 years for B.Tech. and 4 years
for BCA and B.Sc.
(iv) No relaxation shall be given to the student to register for more than 30 credits to make up for the
low performance.
(v) No special consideration shall be given to the student for clearing the backlog courses and student
himself/herself shall be responsible for planning registration and clearing the same.
26 Conditions for Award of a Degree
(i) Earning a minimum credit as specified in the curriculum of respective program. In case of lateral
entry students (direct entry into second year) the minimum credits shall be equivalent to total credits
for the program less the credits of first year. This excludes the credits required to be obtained by the
student of lateral entry, who is advised to take some equivalence courses.
(ii) Should complete the requirements of the Degree in maximum duration specified for the program.
Semester withdrawals due to medical reasons are not counted in six years. However, forced
withdrawal of students e.g., rustication or expulsion or nonattendance by student due to any other
reasons, shall count in the maximum period of six years and minimum period of four years for B.Tech.
and maximum period of five years and minimum period of three years for BCA and B.Sc.
(iii) Successfully completing the Internship studies.
(iv) Should have cleared all the foundational and core courses of the programs. In case of lateral entry
students (direct entry into second year) the student should have completed the foundational/core
courses/equivalent courses, as approved at the time of admission in the programs.
27 B. Tech. (Honors) Programs
Honors program is not mandatory.
(a) A student shall be eligible to get an Honours degree by earning at least eighteen more credits over
and above the regular B.Tech program.
(b) All the Honors courses shall be credited from the School, in which the student is enrolled.
(c) The Honors courses shall be available form 4th semester onwards.

(d) To opt for honors, a student should possess a minimum CGPA of 7.5 on 10-point scale and have no
backlogs by the end of 3rd semester.
(e) To continue in honors, a student should continue to possess a minimum CGPA of 7.5 on 10-point
scale with no backlogs at the end of each semester.
(f) The CGPA criterion to continue in honors shall be calculated by considering the courses in the
regular program as well as the Honors courses credited by the student.
(g) A student shall not be allowed to simultaneously opt for an Honours degree and a Minors degree.
BCA (Honors)/B.Sc (Honors) Programs
Honors program is not mandatory.
(a) A student shall be eligible to get an Honours degree by earning at least fifteen more credits over
and above the regular BCA/B.Sc program.
(b) All the Honors courses shall be credited from the School, in which the student is enrolled.
(c) The Honors courses shall be available from 2nd semester onwards.
(d) To opt for honors, a student should possess a minimum CGPA of 7.5 on 10-point scale and have no
backlogs by the end of 1st semester.
(e) To continue in honors, a student should continue to possess a minimum CGPA of 7.5 on 10-point
scale with no backlogs at the end of each semester.
(f) The CGPA criterion to continue in honors shall be calculated by considering the courses in the
regular program as well as the Honors courses credited by the student.
28 B. Tech. with Minors
(a) Minors program is not mandatory
(b) A student shall be eligible to get a Minors degree by earning at least sixteen more credits over and
above the regular B.Tech. program .
(c) All the Minor courses shall be credited , as decided by the Minors stream a student opts for.
(d) The Minors courses shall be available form 3rd semester onwards.
(e) To opt for minors, a student should have no backlogs by the end of the 2nd semester. To opt for
honors, a student should possess a minimum CGPA of 7 on 10-point scale by the end of 2nd semester.
(f) To continue in minors, a student should possess no backlogs at the end of each semester.
(g) A student is not allowed to simultaneously opt for an Honours degree as well Minors degree.
29 Other rules in relation to Honors or Minors
(a) The Transcript/grade cards shall list out Program courses and Minors/Honors courses separately.

(b) The transcript shall indicate all the honors and minors course inclusive of failed courses.
(c) The Transcript/grade card shall display SGPA/CGPA separately for both the Minors and Honors
program separately.
(d) A student can opt for Minors in 3rd semester, then discontinue the Minor program in the 5th
semester to opt for Honors, if he or she desires.
30 Attendance Requirements
30.1 Attendance Rules
(i) All undergraduate/Integrated program students are expected to be present in every lecture,
tutorial, practical or project interaction sessions scheduled for them.
(ii) A student must have a minimum attendance of 70% in a course during a semester, in lectures,
tutorials or practical’s taken together (as applicable). A student with less than 70 % attendances in a
course will be awarded ‘X’ grade in that course irrespective of his/her performance in the tests during
the semester. The Course Coordinator while awarding the grades will take into account the
consolidated attendance record for the whole semester (Lectures, Tutorials and Labs, etc. ).
(iii) A student should meet the above attendance requirement irrespective of the number of days
he/she is on medical and/or other leave for any reason, whatsoever.
(iv) For the purpose of attendance, every scheduled class will be counted as one unit irrespective of
the number of contact hours.
(v) A relaxation of up to 10% may be given on the following special /exceptional grounds:
(a) Any continuous illness of two weeks --like contagious diseases-- supported by a proper medical
certificate. Smaller absence for shorter duration e.g., few days at a time due to medical reasons shall
not count towards this relaxation. A student must meet the program or course coordinator and submit
the medical documents to prove genuineness of the request.
(b) The student being deputed to represent the University with the prior approval of the Dean.
(c) Any special personal reason, on the recommendation of the Dean and approval of the Vice
Chancellor.
30.2 Semester Withdrawal in Medical Cases
A student who has been absent from classes based on medical advice after due approval of the Vice
Chancellor on the recommendation of Dean (SCSET) and has submitted authentic medical record may
be permitted to withdraw from the semester. Further, if a student is absent from the classes because
of certified genuine medical reasons for duration of five weeks or more will be asked to withdraw from
the semester compulsorily. W grade shall be awarded to all such cases.
30.3 Termination of Registration due to absence/lack of Information regarding absence during the
Semester
(i) A student must inform the Dean (SCSET), immediately of any instance of continuous absence from
classes.

(ii) If a student is continuously absent from the University for more than 21 working days without
notifying the University, his/her name will be struck off the rolls of the University.
(iii) Such absence in the first year will render the student ineligible for re-admission. In subsequent
years, the re-admission may be permitted by the Vice Chancellor after investigation & imposition of
penalty as may be approved by the Vice Chancellor.
31 Interpretation of Regulations
In case of any dispute/difference of opinion in interpretation of these regulations or any other matter
not covered in these regulations, the decision of the Vice Chancellor shall be final and binding.

