RULES ON CURBING THE MENACE OF RAGGING IN BENNETT UNIVERSITY
1. These Rules have been formulated in consonance with UGC Rules 2016, on Anti ragging
in Higher Educational Institutions/Universities, as published in the gazette
notification.
General
2. In view of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, and in consideration of the rules
framed by the Central Government and the University Grants Commission, to prohibit,
prevent and eliminate the scourge of ragging including any conduct by any student or
students whether by words spoken or written or by an act which has the effect of
teasing, treating or handling with rudeness a fresher or any other student, or indulging
in rowdy or undisciplined activities by any student or students which causes or is likely
to cause annoyance, hardship or psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension
thereof in any fresher or any other student or asking any student to do any act which
such student will not in the ordinary course do and which has the effect of causing or
generating a sense of shame, or torment or embarrassment so as to adversely affect
the physique or psyche of such fresher or any other student, with or without an intent
to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing off power, authority or superiority by a student
over any fresher or any other student, in Bennett University and thereby, to provide for
the healthy development, physically and psychologically, of all students, the University
has set forth the Anti-ragging Rules as listed in succeeding paragraphs.
3. The Vice Chancellor shall be responsible for implementation of rules listed hereunder
this policy. However, he may delegate the functional roles and procedures to the Dean
Student Welfare/Student Welfare Officer or any other Officer of the University, so
nominated as the Nodal Officer for anti-ragging function in the University.
Objectives of the Policy-
4. To prohibit, prevent and eliminate any conduct by any student or students which
constitutes ragging.
What constitutes Ragging-
5. Ragging constitutes one or more of any of the following acts:
(a) any conduct by any student or students whether by words spoken or written or
by an act which has the effect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness a
fresher or any other student;
(b) indulging in rowdy or indiscipline activities by any student or students which
causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harm or
to raise fear or apprehension thereof in any fresher or any other student;
1

(c) asking any student to do any act which such student will not in the ordinary course
do and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame, or torment
or embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such fresher
or any other student;
(d) any act by a senior student that prevents, disrupts or disturbs the regular
academic activity of any other student or a fresher;
(e) exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the
academic tasks assigned to an individual or a group of students;
(f) any act of financial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher or
any other student by students;
(g) any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual
assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm
or any other danger to health or person;
(h) any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, post, public insults which would also
include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious or sadistic thrill from actively or
passively participating in the discomfiture to fresher or any other student;
(i) any act that affects the mental health and self-confidence of a fresher or any other
student with or without an intent to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing off
power, authority or superiority by a student over any fresher or any other student.
Measures for prohibition of ragging at the University level
6. The University shall comply with following guidelines of the UGC:
(a) The University or any part of it thereof, including its elements, including, but not
limited to, the schools, departments, constituent units, centres of studies and all
its premises, whether academic, residential, playgrounds, or canteen, whether
located within the campus or outside, and in all means of transportation of
students, whether public or private, accessed by students for the pursuit of studies
in University, shall not permit or condone any reported incident of ragging in any
form; and it shall take all necessary and required measures, including but not
limited to the provisions of these Rules, to achieve the objective of eliminating
ragging, within the University or outside;
(b) The University shall take action in accordance with the Rules of UGC against those
found guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging, actively or passively, or being part
of a conspiracy to promote ragging.
Measures for prevention of ragging at the University level
7. The University shall take the following steps in regard to admission or registration of
students; namely,
2

(a) Public declaration of intent, in its electronic, audio-visual or print or any other
media, for admission of students to any course of study and shall expressly provide
that ragging is totally prohibited in the University, and anyone found guilty of
ragging and/or abetting ragging, whether actively or passively, or being a part of
a conspiracy to promote ragging, shall be liable to be punished in accordance with
the laid down Rules as well as under the provisions of any penal law for the time
being in force.
(b) The brochure of admission/instruction booklet or the prospectus, whether in print
or electronic format, shall prominently print and contain such a warning as above,
including the consequences, as may be applicable.
(c) Students shall be provided with the telephone numbers of the Anti-Ragging
Helpline and all the important functionaries in the University including but not
limited to the Vice Chancellor, Deans/Directors, members of the Anti-Ragging
Committees and Anti-Ragging Squads, Wardens of hostels, and other
functionaries or authorities as relevant,
(d) The admission offer letters shall contain the format of an affidavit, mandatorily in
English as provided in the UGC Rules or reference to the link for on line anti ragging
declaration portal, to be filled up and signed by the applicant and parents. This
undertaking states to the effect that he/she/parents (they) have read and
understood the provisions of anti-ragging policy as well as the provisions of any
other law for the time being in force, and are aware of the prohibition of ragging
and the punishments prescribed, both under penal laws as well as under
University Rules and also affirm to the effect that student has not been expelled
and/or debarred by any University and further aver that student would not
indulge, actively or passively, in the act or abet the act of ragging and if found
guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging, is liable to be proceeded against under
the Rules or under any penal law or any other law for the time being in force and
such action would include but is not limited to debarment or expulsion of such
student. These affidavits shall also be signed by students who may not stay in the
Hostel or reside in any temporary premises not forming part of the University,
including a private commercially managed lodge or hostel.
(e) Before the commencement of the academic session, the Vice Chancellor shall
convene and address a meeting of various functionaries/agencies, such as Chief
Proctor, Hostel Wardens, Student welfare officer, representatives of students,
parents/ guardians (if feasible), faculty, administration including the police (if
considered essential), to discuss the measures to be taken to prevent ragging in
the University and steps to be taken to identify those indulging in or abetting
ragging and punish them.
3

(f) The University shall, to make the community at large and the students in particular
aware of the dehumanizing effect of ragging, and the approach of the University
towards those indulging in ragging, prominently display posters depicting the
provisions of penal law applicable to incidents of ragging, and the provisions of
these rules and also any other law for the time being in force, and the punishments
thereof. It shall also prominently display the same, on Notice Boards hostels and
other buildings as well as at places, where students normally gather and at places,
known to be vulnerable to occurrences of ragging incidents.
(g) The University shall identify, properly illuminate and keep a close watch on all
locations known to be vulnerable to occurrences of ragging incidents. The
University shall tighten security in its premises, especially at vulnerable places
through intense policing by Anti-Ragging Squads and volunteers, if any, which shall
be resorted to at such points at odd hours during the initial duration of the
academic session as may be decided by the authorities.
(h) The University shall utilize the vacation period before the start of the new
academic year to launch a campaign against ragging through posters, leaflets and
such other means, as may be desirable or required.
(i) The faculties/departments/units of the University shall have induction
arrangements, including those which anticipate, identify and plan to meet any
special needs of any specific section of students, in place well in advance of the
beginning of the academic year with an aim to promote the objectives of Anti
ragging.
(j) University may tie up or engage or seek the assistance of professional counsellors
before the commencement of the academic session, to be available when
required by the University, for the purposes of offering counselling to fresher’s
and to other students after the commencement of the academic year.
8. University shall, on the day of registration of students, take the following steps, namely;
(a) Every fresh student admitted to the University shall be given a printed leaflet
detailing to whom he/she has to turn to for help and guidance for various
purposes including addresses and telephone numbers, so as to enable the student
to contact the concerned person at any time, if and when required.
(b) The University, through the leaflet specified in clause (a) shall also explain to the
fresher’s, the arrangements made for their induction and orientation which
promote efficient and effective means of integrating them fully as students with
those already admitted to the University in earlier years.
(c) The leaflet specified in clause (a) shall also inform the fresher’s about their rights
as bona fide students of the University and clearly instructing them that they
should desist from doing anything, with or against their will, even if ordered to by
4

the seniors students, and that any attempt of ragging shall be promptly reported
to the Anti-ragging Squad or to the Warden or to the Vice Chancellor, as the case
may be.
(d) The leaflet specified in clause (a) shall contain a calendar of events and activities
laid down by the University to facilitate and complement familiarization of
fresher’s with the academic environment of the University.
(e) The University shall, on the arrival of senior students after the first week or after
the second week, as the case may be, schedule orientation programs as follows,
namely;
(i) Joint sensitization program and counselling of both fresher’s and senior
students by a professional counsellor,
(ii) joint orientation program of fresher’s and seniors to be addressed by the
Vice Chancellor and the anti -ragging committee;
(iii) organization on a large scale of cultural, sports and other activities to
provide a platform for the fresher’s and seniors to interact in the presence
of faculty members;
(iv) in the hostel, the warden should address all students; and may request two
junior colleagues from the college faculty to assist the warden by becoming
resident tutors for a temporary duration.
(v) as far as possible faculty members should dine with the hostel residents in
their respective hostels to instil a feeling of confidence among the fresher’s.
(f) The University may set up appropriate committees, including the course-incharge,
student advisor, Wardens and some senior students as its members, to actively
monitor, promote and regulate healthy interaction between the fresher’s, junior
students and senior students.
(g) Fresher’s or any other student(s), whether being victims, or witnesses, in any
incident of ragging, shall be encouraged to report such occurrence, and the
identity of such informants shall be protected and shall not be subject to any
adverse consequence only for the reason for having reported such incidents.
(h) Each batch of fresher’s, on arrival at the University, shall be divided into small
groups and each such group shall be assigned to a member of the faculty, who
shall interact individually with each member of the group for ascertaining the
problems or difficulties, if any, faced by the fresher in the University and shall
extend necessary help to the fresher in overcoming the same.
(i) It shall be the responsibility of the member of the faculty assigned to the group of
fresher’s, to coordinate with the Wardens of the hostels and to make surprise
visits to the rooms in such hostels, where a member or members of the group are
5

lodged; and such member of faculty shall maintain a diary of his/her interaction
with the fresher’s under his/her charge.
(j) Fresher’s shall be lodged, as far as may be, in a separate hostel block, and where
such facilities are not available, the University shall ensure that access of seniors
to accommodation allotted to fresher’s is strictly monitored by wardens, security
guards and other staff of the University.
(k) A round the clock vigil against ragging in the hostel premises, in order to prevent
ragging in the hostels after the classes are over, shall be ensured by the University.
(l) It shall be the responsibility of the parents/guardians of fresher’s to promptly
bring any instance of ragging to the notice of the Vice Chancellor.
(m) Every student at the time of his/her registration shall inform the University about
his/her place of residence, if staying outside the campus, while pursuing the
course of study,
(n) The Vice Chancellor or person nominated by him shall, at the end of each
academic year, send a letter to the parents/guardians of the students who are
completing their first year in the University, informing them about these Rules and
any law for the time being in force prohibiting ragging and the punishments
thereof as well as punishments prescribed under the penal laws, and appealing to
them to impress upon their wards to desist from indulging in ragging on their
return to the University at the beginning of the academic session next.
Committees for prevention of Ragging at the University level
9. The University shall constitute the following bodies; namely,
(a) Anti-Ragging Committee to be nominated and headed by the Vice Chancellor, and
consisting of representatives of civil and police administration, local media, Non-
Government Organizations involved in youth activities, representatives of faculty
members, representatives of parents, representatives of students belonging to
the fresher’s' category as well as senior students, non-teaching staff; and shall
have a diverse mix of membership in terms of levels as well as gender. It shall be
the duty of the Anti-Ragging Committee to ensure compliance with the provisions
of Anti ragging policy as well as the provisions of any law for the time being in
force concerning ragging; and also to monitor and oversee the performance of the
Anti-Ragging Squad in prevention of ragging in the University. The details are
provided at Annex-1.
(b) A smaller body to be known as the Anti-Ragging Squad to be nominated by the
Vice Chancellor with such representation as may be considered necessary for
maintaining vigil, oversight and patrolling functions and shall remain mobile, alert
and active at all times. Provided that the Anti-Ragging Squad shall have
6

representation of various members of the campus community and shall have no
outside representation.
(i) It shall be the duty of the Anti-Ragging Squad to be called upon to make
surprise raids on hostels, and other places vulnerable to incidents of, and
having the potential of, ragging and shall be empowered to inspect such
places.
(ii) It shall also be the duty of the Anti-Ragging Squad to conduct an on-thespot
enquiry into any incident of ragging referred to it by the Vice Chancellor or
any member of the faculty or any member of the staff or any student or any
parent or guardian or any employee of a service provider or by any other
person, as the case may be; and the enquiry report along with
recommendations shall be submitted to the Anti-Ragging Committee for
action.
(iii) Provided that the Anti-Ragging Squad shall conduct such enquiry observing
a fair and transparent procedure and the principles of natural justice and
after giving adequate opportunity to the student or students accused of
ragging and other witnesses to place before it the facts, documents and
views concerning the incident of ragging, and considering such other
relevant information as may be required.
(c) The University shall, at the end of each academic year, in order to promote the
objectives of these Rules, constitute a Mentoring Cell consisting of students
volunteering to be Mentors for fresher’s, in the succeeding academic year; and
there shall be as many levels or tiers of Mentors as the number of batches in the
University, at the rate of one Mentor for six fresher’s and one Mentor of a higher
level for six Mentors of the lower level.
(d) The University shall constitute a body to be known as Monitoring Cell on Ragging,
which shall coordinate to achieve the objectives of these Rules; and the
Monitoring Cell shall review reports from the Anti ragging committee and it shall
also keep itself abreast of the decisions of the District Level Anti-Ragging
Committee headed by the District Magistrate. The Monitoring Cell shall also
review the efforts made by University to publicize anti-ragging measures, soliciting
of affidavits from parents/guardians and from students, to abstain from ragging
activities or willingness to be penalized for violations; and shall function as the
prime mover for initiating action on the part of the appropriate authorities of the
university for amending the Statutes or Ordinances or Bye-
laws to facilitate the implementation of anti-ragging measures at the level of the
University. The composition of the committee is at Annex-2.
10. The University shall take the following other measures, namely;
7

(a) Each hostel or a place where groups of students reside, forming part of the
University, shall have a full-time Warden, to be appointed by the University as per
the eligibility criteria laid down for the post reflecting both the command and
control aspects of maintaining discipline and preventing incidents of ragging
within the hostel, as well as the softer skills of counselling and communicating
with the youth outside the class-room situation; and who shall reside within the
hostel, or at the very least, in the close vicinity thereof.
(b) The Warden shall be accessible at all hours and be available on telephone and
other modes of communication, and for the purpose the Warden shall be provided
with a mobile phone by the University, the number of which shall be publicised
among all students residing in the hostel.
(c) The University shall review and suitably enhance the powers of Wardens; and the
security personnel posted in hostels shall be under the direct control of the
Warden and their performance shall be assessed by them.
(d) The professional counsellors should counsel fresher’s and/or any other student(s)
desiring counselling, in order to prepare them for the life ahead, particularly in
regard to the life in hostels and to the extent possible, also involve parents and
teachers in the counselling sessions.
(e) The University shall undertake measures for extensive publicity against ragging by
means of audio-visual aids, counselling sessions, workshops, painting and design
competitions among students and such other measures, as it may deem fit.
(f) The faculty of the University and its non-teaching staff, which includes, but is not
limited to the administrative staff, contract employees, security guards and
employees of service providers providing services within the University, shall be
sensitized towards the ills of ragging, its prevention and the consequences
thereof.
(g) The University shall obtain an undertaking from every employee of the University
including all teaching and non-teaching members of staff, contract labour
employed in the premises either for running canteen or as watch and ward staff
or for cleaning or maintenance of the buildings/lawns and employees of service
providers providing services within the University, that he/she would report
promptly any case of ragging which comes to his/her notice.
(h) The University shall make a provision in the service rules of its employees for
issuing certificates of appreciation to such members of the staff who report
incidents of ragging, which will form part of their service record.
(i) The University shall give necessary instructions to the employees of the canteens
and messing, whether that of the University or that of a service provider providing
this service, or their employers, as the case may be, to keep a strict vigil in the area
of their work and to report the incidents of ragging to the Vice Chancellor or
8

members of the Anti-Ragging Squad or members of the AntiRagging Committee
or the Wardens, as may be required.
(j) Discreet random surveys shall be conducted amongst the fresher’s every fortnight
during the first three months of the academic year to verify and crosscheck
whether the University is indeed free of ragging or not and for the purpose the
University may design its own methodology of conducting such surveys.
(k) The University shall cause to have an entry, apart from those relating to general
conduct and behaviour, made in the Migration/Transfer Certificate issued to the
student while leaving the University, as to whether the student has been punished
for committing or abetting an act of ragging, as also whether the student has
displayed persistent violent or aggressive behaviour or any inclination to harm
others, during his course of study in the University.
(l) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules with regard to obligations and
responsibilities pertaining to the authorities or members of bodies prescribed
above, it shall be the general collective responsibility of all levels and sections of
authorities or functionaries including members of the faculty and employees of
the University, whether regular or temporary, and employees of service providers
providing service within the University, to prevent or to act promptly against the
occurrence of ragging or any incident of ragging which comes to their notice.
(m) The Vice Chancellor, if asked for by UGC, shall submit fortnightly reports of the
University, including those of the Monitoring Cell on Ragging in case of an
affiliating university, to the State Level Monitoring Cell.
Action to be taken by the Vice Chancellor-
11. On receipt of the recommendation of the Anti-Ragging Squad or on receipt of any
information concerning any reported incident of ragging, the Vice Chancellor shall
immediately determine if a case under the penal laws is made out and if so, either on
his own or through a member of the Anti-Ragging Committee authorised by him in this
behalf, proceed to file a First Information Report (FIR), within twenty four hours of
receipt of such information or recommendation, with the police and local authorities,
under the appropriate penal provisions relating to one or more of the following, namely;
(i) Abetment to ragging;
(ii) Criminal conspiracy to rag;
(iii) Unlawful assembly and rioting while ragging;
(iv) Public nuisance created during ragging;
(v) Violation of decency and morals through ragging;
(vi) Injury to body, causing hurt or grievous hurt;
(vii) Wrongful restraint;
(viii) Wrongful confinement;
9

(ix) Use of criminal force;
(x) Assault as well as sexual offences or unnatural offences;
(xi) Extortion;
(xii) Criminal trespass;
(xiii) Offences against property;
(xiv) Criminal intimidation;
(xv) Attempts to commit any or all of the above-mentioned offences against the
victim(s);
(xvi) Threat to commit any or all of the above-mentioned offences against the
victim(s);
(xvii) Physical or psychological humiliation;
(xviii) All other offences following from the definition of “Ragging”.
12. provided that the Vice Chancellor shall forthwith report the occurrence of the incident
of ragging to the District Level Anti-Ragging Committee. Provided further that the
University shall also continue with its own enquiry initiated and other measures without
waiting for action on the part of the police/local authorities and such remedial action
shall be initiated and completed immediately and in no case later than a period of seven
days of the reported occurrence of the incident of ragging.
Responsibilities of the Commission and the Councils (Which should be known to the
Students) -
13. Any distress message received at the Anti-Ragging Helpline shall be simultaneously
relayed to the Vice Chancellor, the Warden of the Hostels, and if so required, the District
Magistrate, and the Superintendent of Police, and shall also be web enabled so as to be
in the public domain simultaneously for the media and citizens to access it.
14. The Vice Chancellor shall be obliged to act immediately in response to the information
received from the Anti-Ragging Helpline.
15. In order to enable a student or any person to communicate with the Anti- Ragging
Helpline, every University shall permit unrestricted access to mobile phones and public
phones in hostels and campuses, other than in class-rooms, seminar halls, library, and
in such other places that the University may deem it necessary to restrict the use of
phones.
Administrative action in the event of ragging
16. The University shall punish a student found guilty of ragging after following the
procedure and in the manner prescribed herein-under:
(a) The Anti-Ragging Committee of the University shall take an appropriate decision,
in regard to punishment or otherwise, depending on the facts of each incident of
10

ragging and nature and gravity of the incident of ragging established in the
recommendations of the Anti-Ragging Squad.
(b) The Anti-Ragging Committee may, depending on the nature and gravity of the guilt
established by the Anti-Ragging Squad, award, to those found guilty, one or more
of the following punishments, namely;
(i) Suspension from attending classes and academic privileges.
(ii) Withholding/ withdrawing scholarship/ fellowship and other benefits.
(iii) Debarring from appearing in any test/ examination or other evaluation
process.
(iv) Withholding results.
(v) Debarring from representing the University in any regional, national or
international meet, tournament, youth festival, etc.
(vi) Suspension/ expulsion from the hostel.
(vii) Cancellation of admission.
(viii) Rustication from the University for period ranging from 1 to 4 semesters.
(ix) Expulsion from the University and consequent debarring from admission to
any other University for a specified period.
(x) Fine which may extend upto Rs.2.5 lakh Provided that where the persons
committing or abetting the act of ragging are not identified, the University
shall resort to collective punishment.
(c) An appeal against the order of punishment by the Anti-Ragging Committee shall
lie with the Vice Chancellor.
17. Where in the opinion of the appointing authority, a lapse is attributable to any member
of the faulty or staff of the University, in the matter of reporting or taking prompt action
to prevent an incident of ragging or who display an apathetic or insensitive attitude
towards complaints of ragging, or who fail to take timely steps, whether required under
these Rules or otherwise, to prevent an incident or incidents of ragging, then such
authority shall initiate departmental enquiry, in accordance with the prescribed
procedure of the University, against such member of the faulty or staff. Provided that
where such lapse is attributable to the Vice Chancellor, the authority designated to
appoint such Head shall take such action.
Annex 1
COMPOSITION OF ANTI RAGGING COMMITTEE
11

Head of the Chairman
1. Dr. Raghunath K. Shevgaonkar Vice Chancellor
Institution (Ex Officio)
2. Prof. Debajyoti Mukhopadhyay Dean, SEAS Ex officio
Representatives
3. Nominated by DM Office of Civil Member
Administration
Representatives of
4. Nominated Circle officer, GBN Police Member
Administration
Ms Vandana Keelor Representatives of
Noida Bureau Chief
5. Mob - 9868 146996 Local Media Member
of TOI
Vandana.keelor@timesgroup.com
Representatives of
Non-
Government
6. To be Nominated Member
Organizations
involved in youth
activities.
Dean Student
Representatives of
7. Prof Milind Padalkar affairs and Prof Member
faculty members
SOM
Representatives of
students belonging
8. To be nominated Student Rep Member
to fresher’s
category
Representatives of
9. To be nominated students from Student Rep Member
senior students
Representatives of
10. To be nominated Member
non-teaching staff
Student welfare Member /
11. Ms. Manisha Shukla
officer Secy
12

Annex2
COMPOSITION OF MONITORING CELL
1. Dr. Raghunath Shevgaonkar Vice Chancellor Chairman (Ex Officio)
2. Prof. Debajyoti Mukhopadhyay Dean SEAS Member
3. Prof. Nilanjan Chattopadhyay Dean SOM Member
4. Prof. M. Sridhar Acharyulu Dean (Officiating) SOL Member
5. Prof. Sunil Saxena Prof and Head TSOM Member
6. Prof Milind Padalkar Dean Student Affairs Member
7. Mr. Harish Srivastava Head Admin Member/Secy
8. Col. (Retd) Guljit Singh Chadha Registrar Member
13

