BENNETT UNIVERSITY, GREATER NOIDA
ESTABLISHED UNDER BENNETT UNIVERSITY, GREATER NOIDA, ACT-2016
(UTTAR PRADESH ACT NUMBER 24 OF 2016)
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR UNDER GRADUATE
BA (Journalism & Mass Communication)
(Applicable w.e.f AY 2018 onwards)
ACADEMIC HAND BOOK FOR PROGRAMS CONDUCTED BY SCHOOL
OF MEDIA AND LIBERAL ARTS
.
INDEX

Section Description Page’s No.
I The Academic System and Philosophy 2-3
II 4-5
Definitions
III 6-7
General Rules
8-24
Regulations for the BA (Journalism & Mass Communication)
IV
Program
V Instructions and Penalty for use of Unfair Means 25-31
32-34
VI Standing Orders: Library
BA (JMC) 2017-2020 and 2018-21 Semester-wise Credits 35-41
VII Chart
BA (Journalism and Mass Communication) Course Outline 42-58
VIII
2017-20 and 2018-21
1

SECTION-I THE ACADEMIC SYSTEM AND PHILOSOPHY
1. Vision
To provide holistic media education that blends academic rigour with professional skills.
2. Mission The School’s Mission is to:
• Conduct a program that is industry relevant.
• Nurture students to become effective and ethical communicators.
• Sensitize students to humanitarian and socio-economic issues.
• Ensure that teaching keeps pace with changing technology.
• Conduct research and usability studies on issues that impact society and the nation.
3. Teaching Philosophy
The teaching philosophy of the School is learning by doing, and comes from the following
immortal words of Chinese Philosopher Confucius:
“I hear, and I forget
I see, and I remember
I do, and I understand”
4. The University shall achieve the same through its Academic Philosophy which is built around
five key dimensions: -
(a) Global Academic Partnerships.
(b) High Caliber National and International Faculty.
(c) Industry-Centric Curriculum.
(d) Entrepreneurial Thinking.
(e) Life and Career Ready Students.
5. Teaching Methodology / Pedagogy
The School’s curriculum and teaching practices are student-centric. The Classroom Teaching
is backed by:
(a) Project-based learning
(b) Experiential learning through lab and field assignments
(c) Training on latest versions of media software
2

(d) Industry visits
(e) Student-led presentations
(f) Case studies
(g) Audio-visual sessions
(h) Group/Panel discussions
(i) Guest lectures from domain experts
(j) Collaborative learning
5. Process of learning
The learning is spread evenly across six semesters, and broadly addresses four areas:
(a) The First is introduction to the basic principles of media. This is through lectures
delivered by in house Faculty and supplemented by Visiting Faculty.
(b) The Second is development of skills, which happens in labs.
(c) The Third is sensitization to socio-economic issues, which is achieved through field
visits.
(d) The Fourth is industry exposure, which is achieved through Internship in media
companies.
3

SECTION-II
DEFINITIONS
1. “Academic Council” shall mean the Academic Council of the University, as defined in the
Statutes.
2. “Attendance” means the physical presence of the student in the class which is recorded by
the Faculty or Coordinator of the subject.
3. “Backlog Paper” having a “fail grade” at the end of complete evaluation components and
opportunities
4. “Brief Syllabus” – shall refer to the broad topics that form part of a course.
5. “CGPA” shall mean the cumulative grade point average of a student.
6. “Core Courses”. Shall mean the courses which are considered mandatory to be taken by
students and shall include all compulsory courses at departmental level and must be passed
by students to fulfill the degree requirement. The courses need to be repeated by students
in case of “fail” grade.
7. “Course” shall mean a subject or curricular component identified by a designated code
number and a title.
8. “Course Coordinator” shall mean a faculty member who shall have full responsibility for the
course, coordinating the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course, including
setting up of course syllabus, timeline for conduct of various component of the course,
Examinations and the award of grades. In case of any difficulty, the student is expected to
approach the course coordinator for advice and clarification.
9. “Curricula” This will refer to a program structure duly filled with titles and code numbers
of the courses in a program for a discipline.
10. “Degree” shall mean the degree as per nomenclature approved by the UGC, for a program
and such other degrees of the University as may be approved by the Executive Council.
11. “Detailed Course Outline” It shall comprise details such as Curriculum, Course Code, Course
Title, Brief Syllabus, Course Learning Outcomes, Pre-requisites, if any, special teaching
methodology, Evaluation Methodology etc.
12. “Elective Courses” These courses may be subscribed by a student to have flexibility to
pursue their interest in different areas of program. The elective courses are expected to
help a student to gain deeper knowledge and skills in specific/chosen areas.
13. “Executive Council” shall mean the Executive Council of the University, as defined in the
Act.
14. “Faculty Mentor” shall mean a faculty member nominated by the Department to advise /
counsel/mentor a student on matters related to the academic program, of the student.
He/she shall be responsible for acting as an interface between student, University and
parents / guardians, as required.
15. “Grade Moderation Committee of the Department” shall mean the committee appointed
by the Dean of School for each department to moderate grades awarded by the faculty and
4

course coordinators in different course(s) in a semester at a given level of a curriculum. It
shall normally be headed by the Head of the Department and consist of all course
coordinators as members.
16. “Grade Moderation Committee of the School. Shall mean the committee headed by the
respective Deans of the schools and comprise the Heads, or chairpersons of grade
moderations committees.
17. “Internal components” shall mean all the evaluation components of a course such as project
submissions, viva-voce, Mid-Semester Examination and other evaluation schemes
approved by the School, other than the End Semester Examination.
18. “Internship” shall mean mandatory apprenticeship for a period of 6-8 weeks as specified in
respective program structure/curricula and rules governing the program thereto and may
carry credits .
19. “Pre-requisite” shall mean course which a student has to pass before taking another course
which has it as a pre-requisite.
20. “PG Department” shall mean Post Graduate Department
21. “Program” shall imply with reference to a degree programs or a degree program in a
particular discipline.
22. “Program Structure” : To be used for defining semester wise credits and contact hours
(distribution allotted to various types of courses in a program) like Theory, Labs ,tutorials,
Seminars and internship etc. mentioning their status as core or elective) .
23. “SGPA” shall mean the semester grade point average.
24. “Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University and / or from
outside the University, approved by the Vice Chancellor / Dean to supervise the student for
the designated academic activity.
25. “Student” Student shall mean a student registered for the undergraduate program for full
time study leading to Bachelor’s Degree
26. “UG Department” shall mean Undergraduate Department.
5

SECTION-III GENERAL REGULATIONS
1. The University may introduce programs in any of the streams/areas specified under the
UGC Act 1956 and its Regulations on specification of degrees, and of such minimum duration
as approved by the Executive Council. The Executive Council may approve the introduction,
suspending or phasing out a program on the recommendation of the Academic Council
either on its own or on the initiative of Schools/ Department(s).
2. The admissions to a BA (Journalism & Mass Communication) program shall be generally
governed by the rules of the UGC or any other competent authority of the MHRD and shall
be as notified in the admission notification of the respective academic year.
3. The minimum entry qualification for admission to BA (Journalism & Mass Communication)
shall be such as may be laid down in the regulations or specified by the Executive Council or
guidelines laid down by the regulating bodies like UGCI. As an example, the minimum
eligibility qualification for admission to the first year UG program shall be qualifying the
Senior Secondary School Certificate (10+2) examination. While deciding the admission
procedure, the University may lay down compulsory subjects in qualifying examination in
10+2 examinations for admission for various programs. In addition, the University may also
lay down additional qualifications/examinations like etc conducted by Nationally accredited
bodies as mandatory requirements for admission to UG programs. The University may also
approve conduct of its own written test or any other method like Personal Interview (PI)
towards criteria of drawing the merit lists.
4. The date of initial registration for the UG/program shall normally be the date on which the
student formally registers for the first time. This date shall be construed as the date of
joining the program for all intents and purposes.
5. A UG program student shall be required to earn a minimum number of credits through
various academic components of a curriculum, as provided for in the regulations.
6. A UG student shall be required to complete all the requirements for the award of the degree
within such period as may be specified in the regulations below . The award of the degree
to an eligible candidate shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in the
regulations.
7. A student may be granted such scholarship /assistantship /stipend/contingency grant, etc.
as may be specified in accordance with the directions of the Executive Council from time to
time or regulations laid down for the same.
8. A student admitted to the programs shall be governed by the Rules, Regulations and
Procedures framed by the University and on matters of general discipline, and implemented
from time to time.
9. The students shall abide by the “Standing Orders for Students” issued by the University.
These standing orders shall deal with the discipline of the students in the Hostels,
Departments, Schools and University premises or outside. The standing orders may also deal
6

with such other matters as are considered necessary for the general conduct of the
students’ co-curricular and extra-curricular activities.
10. In exceptional circumstances the chairman of Executive Council may, on behalf of the
Council, approve amendments, modifications, Insertions or deletions of an Ordinance(s)
which in his/her opinion is necessary or expedient for the smooth running of the program:
provided all such changes are reported to the Council in its next meeting.
7

SECTION-IV
REGULATIONS FOR THE BA- JOURNALISM AND MASS COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
1. Short Title & Commencement
These regulations shall be called regulations for the Journalism and Mass Communication
program in Media and Liberal Arts of the University.
Duration
The duration of the program leading to award of the degree of BA (Journalism & Mass
Communication) shall be minimum three years. However, the duration may be extended
up-to five years from the date of initial registration. The maximum duration of the program
excludes the period of withdrawal, due to medical reasons. However, it shall include the
period of rustication or any other reason of discipline /academics e.g. suspension, willful
absence by the student, not getting promotion to the next class due to poor academic
performance etc. Similarly, the minimum duration of three years shall exclude the period of
rustication for a semester or more, or any other disciplinary reason
e.g. suspension/willful absence by the student in a semester etc. Under such circumstances
the student shall attend the University for an additional semester or more time, as equated
to period of absence/suspension.
2. Starting or Phasing out of Program
The University may offer such UG/ programs in Media and Liberal Arts leading to award of
BA (Journalism & Mass Communication) degree as per nomenclature laid by the UGC
regulations on the subject and as may be approved by the Executive Council. The maximum
duration of each program shall be specified and may be altered in accordance with the
recommendations of the Academic Council. A program may be phased out on
recommendations of the Academic Council and approval of the Executive Council ,on
account of continuous low registration in the program or any other justifiable reason like
becoming obsolete etc. Similarly, the Executive Council may approve starting of a new
program or modifying the existing one on the recommendations of the Academic Council
3. Admissions
Admission to all UG programs shall be made as per procedure to be approved by the
Executive Council and may be reviewed periodically as required. Eligibility criteria for the
program, meriting and selection policy, Fee structure, refund policy, total number of seats,
reservation policy, and special category seats, e.g. NRI/International students seats, etc.
shall be defined in the admission procedure.
4. Semester System
The UG programs in the University shall be based on Semester System; namely, Even(Jan –
June) and Odd (July-Dec) Semesters, in an academic year. Winter and summer vacations
shall be allowed, as applicable. In addition, few courses may be offered during the vacations,
as may be provided in the regulations. The courses whether offered in regular semester or
the summer /winter semester, shall be evaluated as per the policy and procedure laid down.
8

5. Semester Duration
A semester will be of approximately 18-20 weeks duration. Of these, 90 days will be
available for actual instructions.
6. Courses and Degree
The UG program shall comprise following type of courses
7 BA (Journalism & Mass Communication)
7.1 The Bachelor of Arts (Journalism and Mass Communication) program offered by the School
of Media and Liberal Arts is a three-year program leading to a Graduation degree.
The focus of the program, which is divided into six semesters, is to provide skill-based
education to students wanting to pursue a career in media. The curriculum has been
designed to provide the right mix of knowledge, perspective and skills that a student needs
to succeed as a media professional.
7.2 Pass Course and Honours Degree: A student, who enrols in the BA (Journalism and Mass
Communication) program, can either qualify for a Pass Course degree or an Honors Degree
with Specialization at the end of three years.
7.3 The Pass Course degree is awarded to all those students who successfully complete all core
courses totalling 120 credits. The minimum period to finish the program is three years.
However, the students have an extra two-year window to finish their program, and get a
Pass Course degree. Those who fail to do so in five years are required to enrol once again.
7.4 The Honours degree is awarded to those students who successfully complete all Honours
courses totalling 30 credits. This is over and above the 120 credits that the student is
required to earn to get a Pass Course degree
The Honours Courses are available to all students from the first semester, and all students
are encouraged to complete the Honours Courses. However, there may be situations where
the students may find it difficult to successfully complete the Honours Courses. In such
cases, the students can opt out of the Honours program and settle for the Pass Course
degree.
The Honours Courses can’t be rolled over to another semester. They must be completed in
the designated semester. Students who fail to clear even one Honours Course are
automatically denied the Honours degree. To help the students identify the Honours
Courses, the course codes of all Honours Courses end with the letter H.
Further, credits earned in an Honours Course can’t be transferred or added to the Pass
Course credits in case a student decides to opt out of the Honours programme or fails to
clear all the Honours Courses. A student has to earn the full complement of 120 credits
assigned to core courses that constitute the Pass Course to get a Pass Course degree.
9

7.5 Specialization
The students, who are able to complete all the Honours Courses prescribed in the first
four semesters, become eligible to specialize in one of the following four streams: Print
Journalism, Television Journalism, Web and Mobile Journalism, Advertising and Public
Relations. The specialization work happens in the third year of the program.
The specialization is not available to students who have not been able to clear all their
Honours Courses listed in the first four semester.
8 Registration
8.1 Every student shall register for the courses that he/she wants to study for earning credits
and his/her name will appear in the roll list of each such course. No credit shall be given if a
student attends a course for which he or she is not registered. The performance of a student
in all courses, for which he/she has registered, shall be included in his/her grade card.
8.2 Registration of courses to be taken in a particular Semester shall be done according to
specific schedule announced by the Registry. In-absentia registration shall not be allowed.
Under special circumstances, the students may be allowed late registration by the Dean, till
a specified date, by paying a late fee fixed by the University along with other necessary fees.
Normally, late registration beyond 7 days shall not be allowed without sanction from the
Vice Chancellor.
8.3 At the time of fee payment and before commencement of the semester, the Registrar shall
give each student a registration record, which shall be the official record of the courses
registered. Students must ensure correctness of same as they shall be awarded grades in
the registered courses, irrespective of their claim to have registered or not registered for
the course.
8.4 Those students who join UG programs in first year shall complete the registration procedure
on a specific registration date (s), prior to the commencement of their classes.
8.5 Registration Methodology for the Courses in various Semesters, depending upon slots
availability.
Priority-1. Core Courses of the semester.
Priority-2. Electives on offer as per the curricula structure.
It shall be responsibility of the student to plan and register for the backlog courses as and
when offered.
The time table shall be announced well before the registration dates so that students are
able to make conscious choices after taking advice from the faculty mentors
8.5.1 Pre-requisites: A student shall not be permitted to register for a course unless he/she passes
the course which is a pre-requisite to that course, if specified.
8.6 Add to / Withdrawal from Registered Courses:
A student shall have the option to add-on or withdraw from Registered courses in a semester
on or before a date notified in the Academic Calendar or as laid down in the instructions. A
student may be allowed to withdraw from a course up to two weeks before the end of
Semester. For this purpose, the student has to submit his/her application on a prescribed
form, available in the Academic Section of the University after taking approvals from Dean.
10

8.7 Faculty Mentor: At the time of completing the registration form or any subsequent change in
the registration, every student shall consult his/her faculty adviser/nominated mentor who
shall be appointed by the Departments. The minimum and the maximum numbers of total
credits in the context of his/her past performance, backlog of courses, GPA and individual
interest should be explained to the students.
8.8 Minimum Number of Students to be Registered in a Course:
An undergraduate elective course shall normally run only if there is a minimum registration
of 10 students in that course. However, exceptional cases may be approved by the Vice
Chancellor.
9 Course Coordinator
Every course offered shall be coordinated by a Course Coordinator appointed by the Head
of the Department. The Course coordinator shall have full responsibility for the course. He
/She shall coordinate the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course in respect
of their participation in various activities related to the course including teaching,
attendance, evaluation through written tests, quizzes, assignments, as may be laid out in
detailed course outline document , and the award of the grades.
Course Coordinators shall also be required to prepare and issue/upload on LMS, the detailed
course outline document / syllabi to the students, before the commencement of semester.
The students may approach course coordinator for any assistance.
10 Course Codes
Each course offered by the University shall be identified by a course code. The course codes
shall be allocated by the Registrar’s Office/or authority so designated.
11 Detailed Course Outline At the beginning of each semester,
the course coordinator/teacher concerned will circulate a detailed course outline
document of the course on the first day of the start of the semester to motivate the
students. It will comprise the following:
(i) Title
(ii) Course Code
(iii) Pre-requisites
(iv) Contact Hours (L-T-P) and credits
(v) Objective(s)
(vi) Learning Outcomes
(vii) Course Outline
(viii) Equivalent course – if any.
(ix) Methodology/Conduct of Course/Detailed Course Plan.
(x) Evaluation Scheme
(xi) Text and reference books
11

Further, these details shall also be provided /available on the Learning Management System
for reference by the students.
12 Credit System
Each course, except a few special courses, has a certain number of credits assigned to it
depending upon its lecture, tutorial and/or laboratory contact hours in a week. A member
of the faculty, called the Course Coordinator, coordinates each course. He/she has the full
responsibility for coordinating the course, coordinating the work of other members of the
faculty involved in that course, holding the tests and awarding the grades. In case of any
difficulty, the student is expected to approach the course coordinator for advice and
clarification.
A letter grade, corresponding to specified number of grade points, is awarded in each course
for which a student is registered. On obtaining a pass grade, the student accumulates the
course credits as earned credits. A student’s performance is measured by the number of
credits that he/she has earned and by the weighted grade point average. A minimum
number of credits should be acquired in order to qualify for the programs.
13 Credit Assignment
Lectures/Tutorials: One lecture/tutorial hour per week during the semester is assigned one
credit.
Practicals: One laboratory hour per week per semester is assigned half credit.
Thus a 3-1-2 course shall have 5 credits.
However, some courses may be of preparatory nature and have half the credit weightage of
a normal course while a few courses are without credit and are referred to as noncredit (NC)
courses.
14 Earned Credits (EC)
The credits assigned to a course in which a student has obtained ‘D’ (minimum passing
grade) or a higher grade will be counted as credits earned by him/her. Any course in which
a student has obtained F, “I” “X” or W grade will not be counted towards his/her earned
credits.
15 Examination /Evaluation System
The evaluation system of the University shall be oriented to encourage the academic
qualities listed in section 1 above. The University follows a continuous evaluation policy. This
is to train the student to put in sustained and disciplined work over the entire period of
study. The Faculty will decide the evaluation components subject to general guidelines of
the University
As a general guideline, there shall be two written examinations i.e Mid Term and an End
Term Examination for theory courses. The end semester exam should be in range of
maximum 35-50% marks.
12

The written examinations shall be conducted under arrangement by the Controller of
Examination. As general Guidelines following shall be adopted:
15.1 Teachers Assessment:
All theory courses shall have teachers assessment component, the weightage of which shall be
decided by the teacher . The Assessment can be structured by the concerned faculty and
conducted continuously during the semester. Teachers Assessment (TA) may be based on
Assignments, Quizzes, Homework, Presentations, Projects, Case Studies, Book Reviews, etc
awarded by the Course Coordinator/respective teacher..
15.2 Practical/Clinical Courses:
The examination/evaluation criteria of the practical/Clinical courses shall be decided by the
respective course coordinator and wherever required on the availability of the external
experts/visiting faculty. Faculty may set/design the practical exercises out of any marks but
the overall weightage shall be in pre-defined percentage, which the concerned faculty/course
coordinator shall announce in the first class of the semester and upload on the LMS.
Methodology for evaluation of Lab component may include day to day work, lab records,
quantity/quality of work and Viva/Seminar/Practical as may be decided.
15.3 Mid /End Semester Examination:
. These examinations shall be conducted by the Controller of Examination, who will finalize
and release the examination dates and schedule for the entire University.
15.4 Division of marks
Each course shall be evaluated out of some total of 100 Marks. Faculty may set the papers
out of any marks, but the overall weightage shall be in pre-defined percentage which the
concerned faculty/course coordination shall announce in the first class of the semester and
also load on the LMS.
15.5 Grading System for Courses:
(i) Students obtaining grades O to D shall be declared pass. Students failing to meet the
minimum cut off marks in the subject will be awarded F grade.
(ii) The grades shall be decided on the aggregate of evaluation of all the components as
per defined weightage
(iii) The grading shall be based on relative grading method as decided by the coordinator
for the course.
15.6 Grading for failing to meet Attendance Requirement.
(i) A student is required to attend all the classes.
(ii) If the attendance profile of a student is unsatisfactory (as given in the rules in
subsequent paragraphs, he/she will be debarred. Any student, who has been awarded
X grade because of being debarred due to attendance shortage, shall not be allowed
to take the supplementary Examination, unless so specified by the University The
student shall have to register for the course in the regular semester when offered as a
backlog course.
13

16 Make Up Examinations (For Mid Term only)
A student may apply for a makeup examination when he/she is not able to take the exam
due to reasons of personal medical condition or compassionate reason like death of a very
close relative. No other contingencies are acceptable. Except in case of medical emergency,
a student needs to seek advance approval from appropriate authority before missing the
Examination. Following rules shall govern the makeup examinations:
16.1 Theory Courses.
(i) A student missing Mid Term Examination can take a make-up Examination. No makeup
examination is allowed for end semester examination and policy for same is laid down
separately
(ii) The students must put up the request for make-up Examination along with the medical
documents to prove the genuineness of the case (for having missed the Examination)
within 5 days of last date of Examination.
(iii) The students who miss the Examination due to medical reason must attach the opinion
of the University Medical Officer (UMO) after showing all medical documents to
him/her.
(iv) The genuineness shall be reviewed and approved by the Vice Chancellor, whose
decision shall be final.
(v) The make-up Examination shall be held between Mid Term & End Semester
Examination and the dates shall be notified in the academic calendar.
(vi) In case a student misses the make-up Examination also, then no further chance will be
provided.
(vii) The duration of Examination shall be as decided by the Faculty/course coordinator.
(viii) Genuine approved cases shall be notified by the Registrar based on the requests
received and only such students shall be allowed to take make-up Examination in the
subjects where approval has been granted.
(ix) The date sheet need not be taken out as the make up examination shall be conducted
under arrangement of concerned faculty, who after evaluation and sharing the
evaluated answer sheet with student shall submit marks to the Registrar .
16.2 Makeup of End Semester Examination
It is mandatory to appear in the end semester major examination to obtain any grade for
a course. A student who missies the end-semester major examination shall follow a similar
procedure as outlined above , to obtain approval of the Vice Chancellor to prove
genuineness of the case. The student whose case is approved as genuine shall be awarded
“I” Grade in the semester results in the given subject. The student shall be allowed to appear
in the supplementary examination of the said subject. However, the grades shall be worked
14

out by computing the marks obtained by students in Mid Term Exams, TA, Lab and
supplementary examination (equated to the weightage of end semester examination). The
total marks shall be compared with the marks of the class as in the regular semester for
award of grade.
16.3 Missing Component exam of Laboratories/Projects/Other type of Courses
If a student misses out the any component of examinations or the events for the Labs/
projects/ viva/scheduled examination which is part of teachers assessment on specified
dates they must put up the request, to the Faculty for Lab and supervisor for Project courses
to allot alternate date(s). The requests shall be put up by the to the Dean who shall verify
the case and provide alternate date(s), if considered genuine. Dean may seek views from
the UMO in cases of medical reasons. The decision of Dean shall be final.
16.4 Makeup of End Semester Viva of Projects
It is mandatory to appear in the final Viva examination to obtain any grade for a project
course In case of student missing the same for genuine reasons; similar method as given for
written examination of theory courses shall be followed.
16.5 Procedure to be adopted by students in case of missing any of the specified
Examination(s).
Following procedure shall be adopted for establishing genuineness of the case. (A)
Action by the student (Medical Cases)
(i) They should report absence from the Examination(s) by fastest possible means
to the Registrar/controller of Examination. It could be email or written
communication by speed post or sent by hand through any means. In case of
Hosteller’s, if a student falls sick while residing in the hostel, he/she should seek
advice of the University Medical Officer.
(ii) The said report should preferably be sent prior to the Examination, but not later
than 5 days after the last date of the said Examination. (iii) The student should
on rejoining;
(a) Report to the University Medical Officer with complete medical documents
to include referral/Prescription slip of the doctor specifically indicating the
disease and medicine prescribed, investigation/Lab reports and discharge
slip in case of admission should be provided,
(b) Obtain his/her views on the genuineness of the case on the proforma
available with the Medical Officer and submit the documents along with the
proforma with remarks of the University Medical Officer to the
Registrar/controller of Examination, not later than 5 days after the last date
of Examination.
15

(iv) In case delay beyond 5 days is anticipated the student should arrange for the
medical documents to be sent to the University Medical Officer by hand through
a friend / relative etc. and get the said genuineness proforma filled-up and
deposit the same with the Registrar/controller of Examination.
(v) No request later than 5 days after the last date of Examination shall be accepted
for reasons of ignorance or any other reasons.
(B) Action by students (any other reason)
In case the student has to miss Examination due to genuine reason other than medical,
prior written sanction of Vice Chancellor and in his absence Dean ) is mandatory. No
post facto requests shall be accepted in any case. The approval should be deposited
with the Registrar /Controller of Examination before the Examination.
(C) Approving genuineness in each case is prerogative of the Vice Chancellor and student
shall have no right to appeal on the same. Therefore student should not make an
assumption that reporting sick and obtaining the slip for rest etc. from the Medical
Authorities including University Medical Officer is an adequate reason to exempt them
from the examination.
17 Supplementary Examination
17.1 The supplementary examinations shall be held for each commiserating semester in January
for Odd semester and June/July for Even semester respectively. A student may avail second
chance of supplementary examination i.e. in semester immediately succeeding first
supplementary exam.
17.2 Eligibility Students with ‘F’ grade (Except indulging in UFM) are eligible to appear in the
Supplementary Examination/second supplementary chance.
17.3 Conduct
(i) Supplementary Examinations shall be held twice in an Academic Session i.e in Jan
(For odd semester immediately preceding the examination and Even semesters for 2nd
supplementary chance) . Similar procedure shall be followed for supplementary and
2nd supplementary examination of Even semester. The dates shall be announced in the
Academic Calendar. The supplementary examination shall be conducted under COE.
The list of eligible students shall be circulated by registrar, to enable registration by
students.
(ii) The Supplementary Examination shall be of the same duration as end term
examination.
(iii) The Supplementary Examinations will cover, the entire syllabus, covered in the
semester.
17.4 Grading in supplementary Exam.
Grade shall be determined on the basis of marks obtained by the students in the
Supplementary Examination of the subject only. The maximum grade awarded for the
16

supplementary Examination shall be up to C+ (grades comprising F, D, C and C+). Those
students who get F grade will have (i) option to appear in 2nd supplementary examination in
ensuing semester or (ii) register afresh in the courses, whenever next available in the regular
semester. The students who take supplementary examination as make up for the end
semester major examination shall be awarded regular grades as out lined above.
17.5 Supplementary for Projects. There shall be no supplementary examinations for the projects,
except make up examination for missing the final viva as per rules outlined above.
17.6 Treatment of failed students
If a student fails in the both the Supplementary Examinations, he/she shall have to
reregister for the subject, in the immediate following corresponding regular semester,
where the subject is on offer.
18 Provision for Summer Term
To assist the students in clearing the backlog courses, an additional Summer Term may be
run by the University, if required, as per the details below.
(i) Parameters:
(a) Duration - Normally 5-6 weeks
(b) Registration for summer courses - Schedule shall be
announced by Registrar in consultation with Dean.
(c) Examinations and Marks - Maximum of two written examination, TA and Lab
as required
(d) Maximum number of courses allowed to be registered by a student - 2
(e) When a student registers for the project course he/she is not entitled to register
for any other course.
(f) Student awarded fail grade or debarred from appearing in end semester
examination in Even Semester, will also be eligible to opt for Summer Term.
(g) Due to limited duration of summer semester, Late registration shall be allowed
up to maximum of 2 days with approval of Dean
(h) Courses offered initially for the summer term may be withdrawn at the
discretion of the University, if the registration in the course is less than 5
students up to 3 days prior to start of the summer term.
(i) The student can register only for the courses which are on offer. The courses
shall be decided by the Deans in consultation with HoDs/Faculty and then
notified well in advance.
(j) Attendance for registered students is mandatory. Attendance rules, as for
normal semester, shall apply for the summer semester also. No deviations in this
regard shall be made
(k) Fee structure shall be notified as approved by the management.
17

19. General Rules: Examinations
(a) Showing the Answer Scripts. The answer scripts of all written Examinations i.e. M-1,
M-2, end semester examination or any other written work conducted by a teacher
shall be shown to the students. Students desirous of seeing the marked answer scripts
of end Semester Examination, has to ensure their presence before results are
declared, as per dates notified in the Academic Calendar.
(b) Marks/Answer Sheets of all other tests shall also be shared with the students and thus,
there shall be no scrutiny of grades. However, before the grades are forwarded to
Registrar/Controller of Examination, they should be displayed provisionally and time
given to students, to discuss the same with respective course coordinators/faculty.
Changes, if any due to computational errors only, should be incorporated only after
approval of Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee of the University before final
results are forwarded to the Registrar/Controller of Examination.
(c) No appeal shall be accepted for scrutiny of grades.
(d) Examination Fee for Supplementary. A fee of Rs.1000/- per course or as decided by
the Management from time to time will be charged from the students. 20 Grading
System
20.1 Letter Grades which shall be considered/ awarded based on student’s marks are as
below:
Letter (O) A+ (A) B+ (B) C+ (C) D F
Grade
Grade Point 10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 0
20.2 Award of Grades
Students obtaining grades A O to D shall be declared pass. O Grade shall be given to a student
having extremely outstanding performance. Students failing in subject will be awarded F
grade. The grades for courses shall be decided on the aggregate marks of all the components
of evaluation like written tests, and Teachers Assessment and Practical’s which shall be
evaluated similarly as per the procedure outlined.
20.3 General Guidelines for the Award of Grades
The following are the general guidelines for the award of grades:
(i) All evaluations of different components of a course shall be done in marks for each
student.
(ii) The marks of each component of evaluation shall be reduced to the approved weightage
and then each component added to get total marks on a 100-points scale. The rounding
off shall be done on the higher side.
(iii) The Grades may be awarded by any of the methods as approved by the Academic
Council and generally as a relative grading. The grade boundaries may be decided by
18

the course coordinators. However the reason for same may be justified during the grade
moderation committee meetings.
(iv) “O” grade shall be awarded in rare cases of extra ordinary performance. Invariable
student having less than 30% marks will be awarded Fail Grade
(v) The provisional grades shall be awarded by the course coordinator. The same shall be
moderated by Grade Moderation Committee at Department and School level.
(vi) The grades should be finalized within time announced in the Academic Calendar. The
course coordinator shall have full responsibility for this purpose.
20.4 Structure of Grading of Academic Performance
The following shall be the structure of grading for academic performance of the students:
Grade Grade Point(s) Description of performance
O 10 Extra Ordinary Performance
A+ 10 Excellent -Exceptional Achievement
A 9 Excellent
B+ 8 Very Good
B 7 Good
C+ 6 Above Average
C 5 Average
D 4 Pass
F
0 Very Poor Credit is not earned and the course
will not satisfy any requirements.
The course has to be repeated.
AU - Audit Pass. Students failing in audit course
shall not be awarded any grade
W - Withdrawal
X - Debarred due to attendance
‘I’ - Incomplete / Continued Project
20.5 Description of other Grades
D Grade
The D grades stands for marginal performance, i.e. it is the minimum passing grade in any
course. D grade shall not be awarded below 30% marks, though each teacher may set higher
marks for same. F Grade
The ‘F’ grade denotes a very poor performance, i.e. failing a course. A student has to repeat
all courses in which she/he obtains ‘F’ grade, until a passing grade is obtained. In the case of
‘F’, no Grade points are awarded. However, the credits of such courses shall be used as
denominator for calculation of GPA or CGPA.
19

W Grade
The ‘W’ grade is awarded to a student if he/she is allowed to withdraw for an entire Semester
from the University on medical grounds for a period exceeding five weeks.
‘I” Grade
The ‘I’ grade is awarded when the student is allowed additional opportunity like make up
Examination etc. based on which the grade is to be decided along with other components of
the evaluation during the semester
An incomplete grade of ‘I’ may be given when an unforeseen emergency prevents a student
from completing the work in a course. The ‘I’ must be converted to a performance grade (A
to F) within 90 days after the first day of classes in the subsequent regular semester. X Grade
–It is equivalent to Fail grade, but awarded due to student falling below the laid down
attendance requirement. Students having X grade shall be required to re-register for the
course, when offered next.
AU Grade The grade denotes that student registered for the audit course has passed the
same. However, no credits are awarded for the audit courses.
21. Grade Moderation
21.1 The Grade Moderation Committee of the School or Department for the courses shall
comprise respective HODs and the course coordinators / teachers, connected with the
course. This committee shall be responsible for adherence to the guidelines for the award
of grades as decided from time to time. The grades thereafter shall be moderated at School
level, under chairmanship of Dean. The Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee for
forwarding the final grades to the Registrar. The Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee
shall also retain the record copies of the marks and the grades along with the statistical
parameters for all the courses moderated and forward a copy of the same to the Registrar.
21.2 The remarks for discipline shall be moderated by the discipline committee constituted by
the Vice Chancellor, and shall follow the laid down parameters for such purpose.
22 Conversion of grades into percentages
The performance of the student is measured in terms of CGPA (on a 10 point scale)..
However, on request from the Indian Industry and oversees University’s querying on
percentage obtained by students, it is essential to provide equated percentage to students
on a grade sheet. For this the CGPA shall be multiplied by 10 and resulting figure rounded
off to the second digit
23 Evaluation of Academic Performance
23.1 The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indices, viz., the Grade Point
Average (GPA) in the first semester (which is the Grade Point Average for a semester) and
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the
completed semesters at any point in time.
Grade Point Average (GPA)
The GPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses,
registered for in the semester and shall be reflected in the semester grade sheet. It is
calculated as below.
20

(a) Multiply the credits by the points assigned to the grade concerned in the table
above.
(b) Add the total grade points for all the registered courses of the semester. (c)
Divide the total grade points by the total number of registered credits.
23.2 The overall Grade of a student in the program of study upto the end of a particular Semester
shall be called Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). The total grade points scored in
different semesters are added up and divided by the total number of registered credits till
then. It indicates the Cumulative Grade Point Average and shall be reflected in the grade
sheets from Semester-2 onwards.
An Example of these calculations is given below:
I Semester
Course Course Grade Earned Grade Points
No. Credits Awarded Credits Points Secured
(1) ( 2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
MCBA101P 4 C 4 6 24
MCBA103P 4 C 4 6 24
MCBA105L 3 C+ 3 7 21
MCBA107P 4 A 4 10 40
MCBA109L 4 A 4 10 40
MCBA111L 2 A 2 10 20
MCBA113 1 B 1 8 08
Credits registered in the I Semester (total of column 2) = 22
Earned Credits in the I Semester (total of column 4) = 22
Points secured in the I Semester (total of column 6) = 177
SGPA (I Semester) = (177 / 22) = 8.04
CGPA (At the end of I Semester) = Not Applicable
II Semester
Course Course Grade Earned Grade Points
No. Credits Awarded Credits Points Secured
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
21

MCBA102L 4 C+ 4 7 28
MCBA104L 4 F 4 0 0
MCBA106L 4 B 4 8 32
MCBA108P 2 C 2 6 12
MCBA1110L 1 A 1 10 10
MCBA1112L 4 A 4 10 40
MCBA114P 1 C+ 1 7 07
Credits registered in the II Semester (total of column 2) = 20
Earned Credits in the II Semester (total of column 4) = 16
Points secured in the II Semester (total of column 6) = 129
SGPA (II Semester) = (129/20) = 6.45
CGPA (at the end of I Year) = (177 + 129) / (22 + 20) = 7.28
24 Academic Performance Monitoring and Load Restriction
HOD / Faculty mentors should monitor the academic performance of students at the end of
each semester and may put him on load restriction, if required.
25 Conditions for Pass and Progression. A student would be allowed to continue with the
program with following preconditions:
(i) Student should obtain a minimum CGPA of 3 on 10-point scale to be promoted to 2nd
year
(ii) For a student to be promoted to 3rd year, it is essential that he/she does not have any
backlog courses of 1st year
(iii) Maximum duration permitted for completion of program shall remain as specified for
the program in the rules
(iv) No special consideration shall be given to the student for clearing the back log courses
and student himself/herself shall be responsible for planning registration and clearing
the same
26 Conditions for Award of a Degree. A student shall be considered for award of degree only
on fulfillment of following conditions:
(i) Earning the minimum credits as specified in the curriculum of respective program.
(ii) Should complete the requirements of the Degree in maximum duration specified for
the program. Semester withdrawals due to medical reasons are not counted in
fiveyears. However forced withdrawal of students e.g. rustication or expulsion or
nonattendance by student due to any other reasons, shall count in the maximum
period of five years and minimum period of three years.
22

(iii) Successfully completing the Internship studies.
(iv) Should have cleared all core courses for Passs Course degree and all core and Elective
courses for Honors degree.
27 Attendance Requirements
27.1 Attendance Rules
(i) All undergraduate program students are expected to be present in every lecture,
tutorial, practical or project interaction sessions scheduled for them.
(ii) A student must have a minimum attendance of 70% in a course during a semester, in
lectures, tutorials or practical’s taken together (as applicable). A student with less than
70 % attendance in a course will be awarded ‘X’ grade in that course irrespective of
his/her performance in the tests during the semester. The Course Coordinator while
awarding the grades will take into account the consolidated attendance record for the
whole semester (Lectures, Tutorials and Labs, moots etc ).
(iii) A student should meet the above attendance requirement irrespective of the number
of days; he/she is on medical and/or other leave for any reason, whatsoever.
(iv) For the purpose of attendance, every scheduled class will be counted as one unit
irrespective of the number of contact hours.
(v) A relaxation of up to 10% may be given on the following special /exceptional grounds:
(a) Any continuous illness of two weeks or more like contagious diseases supported
by a proper medical certificate. Smaller absence for shorter duration e.g. few
days at a time due to medical reasons shall not count towards this relaxation. A
student must meet the program or course coordinator and submit the medical
documents to prove genuineness of the request
(b) The student being deputed to represent the University with the prior approval
of the Dean
(c) Any special personal reason, on the recommendation of the Dean and approval
of the Vice Chancellor.
27.2 Semester Withdrawal in Medical Cases
A student who has been absent from classes on the basis of medical advice after due
approval of the Dean and has submitted authentic medical record may be permitted to
withdraw from the semester. Further if a student is absent from the classes on account of
certified genuine medical reasons for duration of five weeks or more will be asked to
withdraw from the semester compulsorily. W grade shall be awarded to all such cases.
27.3 Termination of Registration due to absence/lack of Information regarding absence during
the Semester
(i) A student must inform the Dean immediately of any instance of continuous absence
from classes.
23

(ii) If a student is continuously absent from the University for more than 21 working days
without notifying the University, his/her name will be struck off the rolls of the
University.
(iii) Such absence in the first year will render the student ineligible for re-admission. In
subsequent years, the re-admission may be permitted by the Vice Chancellor after
investigation & imposition of penalty as may be approved by the Vice Chancellor.
28. Interpretation of Regulations
In case of any dispute/difference of opinion in interpretation of these regulations or any
other matter not covered in these regulations, the decision of the Vice Chancellor shall be
final and binding.
29. Emergent Cases
Notwithstanding anything contained in the above regulations, the Chairman of the Executive
Council may, in emergent situations, take such action on behalf of the Council as he/she
deems appropriate and report it to the next meeting for its approval.
24

SECTION-V INSTRUCTIONS AND PENALTY FOR USE OF UNFAIR
MEANS
1. The salient instructions for the conduct by a student in the Examination hall shall be printed
on the cover page of the answer – book and notice boards. These may include, the list is not
exhaustive),
To Do List
(i) Be in the respective seats five minutes before the exams. You may be debarred entry
or allowed delayed entry so that you do not disturb other students.
(ii) Bring your ID card. Display it appropriately. You may be debarred from the
examination.
(iii) Leave all materials like slips of papers/mobiles/digital diaries/ study material/ revision
notes etc. outside the hall. Forgetting to take out in a hurry or worry is no excuse.
(iv) You must sit as per seating plan displayed outside the halls or notified on your intranet.
(v) You must ensure that you sign your attendance slip before leaving the Examination
Hall.
Not to Do List
(i) Do not get late.
(ii) Do not carry unauthorized materials inside the examination hall:
(a) Short notes,
(b) Loose papers
(c) Notebooks,
(d) Mobiles,
(e) Digital diary,
(f) Do not write anything on covers.
(iii) Even if, material is not related to the examination, you will be charged for UFM.
(iv) You are not allowed to leave the hall before 30 Minutes from start of paper.
(v) Do not copy, Talk or indulge in unfair means. The report provided by the Invigilator is
final. No excuses of any kind will be listened to or accepted.
2. Any contravention of these instructions and the use of any unfair means will render the
student liable for punishment.
3. Actions By the Invigilator’s on Detecting Unfair means Case
(a) As soon as a student is suspected by the invigilator or any other authorized person of
having resorted to unfair means he/she shall immediately take possession of the
answer book along with the relevant material found with the student. The papers,
notes, books, electronic devices etc. found in possession of the student shall be duly
25

signed by the student and the invigilator, sealed and attached with the seized answer-
book in presence of the student. In case student is found to have written something
on the body part a photo of same may be taken on the web cam available etc, if
possible. In case student indulges in UFM other than possession of unauthorized
material like talking to fellow student, attempting to copy from fellow student,
allowing fellow student to copy, discussing answer with fellow student outside the hall
etc, the nature of offence must be duly recorded by the invigilator.
(b) The Invigilator In charge shall get the prescribed form (attached) for unfair means filled
and signed by the student and give his / her comments on the same, in prescribed
place.
(c) After completing all the above formalities, a fresh answer-book shall be given to the
student for completing the Examination.
(d) If the student does not hand over the relevant material and / or refuses to fill up and
sign the prescribed form, the same shall be recorded on the prescribed form. In this
case, co-Invigilator may sign as a witness to the event.
(e) No extra time will be given for completing the Examination as a result of this
procedure.
(f) After Examination is over, these answer books duly marked as I (confiscated copy) and
II (freshly issued copy) along with the material found in possession and the prescribed
form duly filled and signed by the Invigilator In charge shall be delivered separately to
the Registrar/controller of Examination.
4. Convening of Committee on Unfair Means
(a) A Committee (Standing Committee) appointed by the Vice-Chancellor shall enquire
into cases of unfair means in the Examination. Composition of the committee shall
be:
1. Dean (SOM) - Chairman
2-3. Two Professors/ Associate Professor nominated by the Vice ChancellorMembers
4. Controller of Examinations (Member Secretary)
(b) The Committee shall thoroughly examine the cases on the basis of the material/
documents placed and give hearing to the student and the concerned Invigilator. It
shall submit its recommendations after laying down clearly the nature of the offence
to the Vice Chancellor for consideration and necessary orders.
5. What constitutes an UFM
A student necessarily need not be actively involved in cheating to be viewed as a case of
UFM. Willful or even unintentional mistake of noncompliance of instructions/guidelines for
the examination may also be charged as UFM. The acid test for the same is possession of
material or indulgence in an act which may provide unlawful gains.
6. Categories of Offences And Punishments
26

Following actions may be taken for different categories of offences enumerated below:
(A) Category 1 (Not Adhering To Guidelines): Nature of Offence
(a) A student is found talking in the Examination hall to another student.
(b) A student is found to be talking to a person outside the Examination-hall before
submission of the answer sheet e.g. while going to the wash room etc.
(c) A student has deliberately changed his/her seat in the Examination-hall without
the permission of invigilator.
Action to Be Taken: The invigilator in charge of the room/hall shall immediately take
possession of the first answer book. The student shall be informed that the first
answer sheet is being recommended to be cancelled and same may not be evaluated.
The student shall be provided with a second answer book. The first answer-book shall
be cancelled after deliberations of the UFM committee and the second answer-book
only is to be evaluated.
(B) Category 2 (Attempt to take un-lawful advantage): Nature of Offence
(a) A student is reported to have appealed to the Examiner in the answer-book.
(Examiner should report such cases to the Dean, as they may arise during
evaluation exercise).
(b) Writing the solutions of the questions on the question paper itself /electronic
device etc. during the Examination whether with or without intention to
use/circulate the same.
(c) A student is found possessing cell phone or any other item of such type or
communication gazette in the Examination hall though not established to have
used it.
(d) A student is found possessing any notes or printed unauthorized material or
notes written on any part of the body-clothes or instruments such as set square,
electronic device etc. or having notes written on chair, table, desk or drawing
board etc. during the Examination but as per assessment of invigilator has not
used the same .
(e) A student tries to/or appeals to the Invigilator for help during the Examination
Action to Be Taken: The invigilator in charge of the room/hall shall immediately take
possession of the first answer book immediately on occurrence or detection. The
student is to be provided with a fresh answer sheet. The UFM committee may award
cancellation of the concerned paper and direct for award of zero marks in the
concerned examination.
(C) Category 3 (Direct intent/attempt to draw un- lawful advantage) Nature of Offence:
27

(a) Cheating/copying detected during evaluation of the answer sheet (Examiners to
report such cases if detected).
(a) Disrupting the smooth conduct of Examination in any way.
(b) Making use of unauthorized material like written/photocopied note/written on
the body parts, on the clothes or the desk or calculator or box. etc./ by
himself/herself or through assistance of others.
(c) Found to be consulting notes or books while being out-side the Examination hall
during the Examination hours.
(d) Found to be passing on a copy of question(s) set in the paper or solution thereof
to anyone.
(e) Found to have received help from other students or giving help to other students
through passing some written material/electronic device pertaining to the
questions set in the paper concerned.
(f) Found to be allowing other student's to copy from his/her answer book.
(g) Found communicating or attempting to communicate directly or through
someone else with the Examiner or anybody connected with the University
Examination for influencing them in the award of marks.
(h) Found to be guilty of swallowing or destroying any note or paper or any other
material found with him/her.
Action To Be Taken: The student should be awarded Fail grade in that subject. The
student may be allowed or / disallowed to appear in next supplementary Examination
of that subject.
(D) Category 4 (Direct involvement in unethical means): Nature of Offence
A student is found:
(a) In possession of a solution of a question set in the paper through the help of any
student, supervisory or ministerial staff or some other agency/person.
(b) Guilty of having made previous arrangement to obtain help in connection with
the question paper in cases not covered by the above provision.
Action to Be Taken: All Examination to be cancelled for that Term and the student to
be awarded fail grade in all courses registered for the Term. Further the student is
disallowed from appearing in supplementary examination
(E) Category 4 (Direct involvement in unethical means and lacking integrity): Nature of
28

Offence
(a) Smuggling in an answer-book, taking out or arranging to send out an
answerbook.
(b) Writing deliberately another students' roll no. in his/her answer-book.
(c) found in possession of answer-book not his/her own
(d) impersonating another candidates
(e) Allowing impersonation in any Examination.
(f) Guilty of serious misconduct in the Examination hall or obstructing
implementation the instructions of the superintendent or any of the invigilators
in the Examination hall.
(g) Using threatening or foul language etc. during the Examination.
Action to Be Taken: All Examinations of that Term to be cancelled Term and the
student to be awarded fail grade in all courses registered for the Term. Further the
student is disallowed from appearing in supplementary examination. In addition, the
student be debarred from appearing in any University Examination for a period of one
Term or expulsion from the University depending on the gravity of the offence.
(F) Category 7 (Involving other persons): Nature of Offence
Any person who is not a candidate for any Examination found committing or abetting
in committal of any of the offences mentioned above.
Action To Be Taken: To be dealt with the Vice-Chancellor in an appropriate manner
including expulsion from the University if he/she is the student of this University. In
case offender is not from the University, the legal action as may be required to be
initiated.
(G) Category 8 (Repeat/habitual offences): Nature Of Offence
Second/subsequent case(s) of UFM reported against a student in the same academic
year.
Action to Be Taken: One step higher punishment than the most severe punishment
awarded so far in all the UFM cases against him/her, including the action
corresponding to present UFM case.
7. Cases not covered by these Regulations.
To be decided by the Vice-Chancellor.
8. Unfair means / Plagiarism in Class Work
Any case pertaining to purported resorting to unfair means/ plagiarism during the Class
Work/ Quizzes/ Submission of Seminar Report/ Dissertation/ Practical's/ Laboratory
Classes/ Projects etc. shall be dealt with by the appropriate committee/ persons as
29

nominated by the Dean (SOMLA). If in the opinion of such committee the offence is of
serious nature, it shall be referred to the Vice Chancellor for investigation through Standing
Committee of the University. These offences could be:
(a) Which have occurred before or after the Examination, or partly before and during or
during and after the Examination;
(b) Which have been detected after the Examination/ declaration of the result/ award of
the degree;
(c) Which has been reported or detected after a research paper report/ note/
communication has been published in a Research Journal widely circulated magazine/
Proceedings of conferences/ seminar or a monograph/ book, and or any electronic
device.
(d) The penalty in such cases of unfair means/ plagiarism which have been found to be
true and shall be recommended by the appropriate committees of the department/
University Standing Committee, as the case may be. The imposition of any such
penalty shall be at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellor, who, after considering the full
facts and the report on the matter (i) may impose the same penalty,
(ii) may reduce the penalty, or
(iii) may enhance the penalty as recommended by the committee.
30

Proforma - UFM-1
FORM FOR UNFAIRMEANS
1. Enrolment No. : ______________________________________
2. Name of Student : ______________________________________
3. Programs/Branch/Specialization : ______________________________________
4. Year of Admission : ______________________________________
5. Venue of Examination (Hall------) : ______________________________________
6. Date of Examination : ______________________________________
7. Time __________ : From _________________ To _____________
8. Course Code : ______________________________________
9. Course Title : ______________________________________
10. Name of Invigilator(s) : ______________________________________
Details of Seized Material (Pl. Attach): (All these materials should be signed by the Invigilator of the
Examination and the student) Mobiles confiscated shall be deposited with Registrar and returned
back after down loading incriminating data
1.
2.
3.
Statement of Student:
Signature of Student
Date ____________________ Time ______________________
Statement of Invigilator: (Record circumstances of offences in brief the statement should be
definite and unambiguous.
Certified that the statement by the student was made in my presence or the student declined to
give any statement. (Cut whichever not applicable)
Name: __________________ Signature of Invigilator Date:__________ Time ____
31

SECTION-VII STANDING ORDERS: CAMPUS & LIBRARY
General
1.1 Students of the University must study the Standing Orders carefully and also make themselves
familiar with these instructions, pertaining to their academic, co-curricular and other
activities.
1.2 Any amendments/additions to these Standing Orders will be notified through notices displayed
on notice boards and circulated in the usual manner. The plea of ignorance will not be
entertained for any breach of orders in force from time to time. Therefore, students must
see the notices on the Notice Boards/ Website/Web Kiosk regularly.
1.3 The Schedules for all academic works and for the Examinations will be notified to the students
separately by the Registrar/Academic Departments.
1.4 The Vice Chancellor is overall in charge of the academic activities including attendance and
leave of students.
1.5 Student welfare officer will deal with the welfare and discipline of all students in the campus
including Hostel and also outside the campus and will ensure maintenance of good conduct.
He/ She will be assisted by other members of faculty/ staff/ wardens as nominated.
Conduct and Behavior
2.1 Students should attend all their classes and strictly observe class timings. They should likewise
carry out other out-door and extra-curricular duties assigned to them. Their attendance and
leave is governed by the regulations pertaining to them.
2.2 Students must give their undivided attention to their academic work and must be respectful to
their teachers and supervisors.
2.3 All students must carry I-cards with them at all times. I-card is an important document. Loss of
I-card may invite monetary fine as decided from time to time. Every student, who has been
issued the Identity Card, shall have to produce or surrender the Identity Card, as and when
required by the Proctorial Staff, Teaching and Library Staff and the Officials/security staff of
the University. The loss of the Identity Card, whenever it occurs, shall immediately be
reported in writing to the Registrar.
2.4 Students must conduct themselves with due decorum in the classes, laboratories, Library etc.
and move in an orderly and disciplined manner. They must conduct themselves in a manner
worthy of great traditions.
2.5 Students, who fail to make sufficient progress in their studies and also do not maintain the
required attendance in the classes, are liable to be debarred from appearing in the final
examination and will be awarded Fail grade.
2.6 If in a particular class/period more than 40% students are absent, it would be regarded as mass
absenteeism and an act of indiscipline. Disciplinary action will be taken on the students
indulging in mass absenteeism.
32

2.7 No student shall disobey any order issued by the University. Students must behave with due
decorum towards their fellow students.
2.8 Students should not indulge in abusive behavior/ violence of any kind with fellow students,
teaching faculty and employees of the University within or outside the University. Violence
by any student or group of students will lead to severe disciplinary action.
2.9 No meeting of the students other than those organized under the aegis of the various
recognized students activities shall be called without the prior permission in writing from
the student welfare officer.
2.10 No meeting/function within the University campus to which any outsider is invited shall be
organized nor shall any outsider address the students without the prior permission in writing
from the Vice Chancellor.
2.11 No students shall use unfair means at any of the examinations and tests or attempt or threaten
the staff to get undue advantage. Disciplinary action shall be taken against defaulters as per
the rules of the University.
2.12 Students must pay all fees and other dues on specified dates. If they do not do so, they render
themselves liable to penalties as in force from time to time.
2.13 Students must take good care of all University property. Any damage to University property
shall be viewed as indiscipline. Such student(s), in addition to facing the disciplinary action,
shall have to replace the damaged property and make good the losses caused due to their
action. Students must use the furniture and fittings with due care and must not deface
buildings, roads, furniture and fittings etc. in any manner.
2.14 Students must handle the laboratory equipment’s, instrument and machinery that they have
to use in course of their work with great care. Any damage or breakage of such equipment
etc. due to improper use of negligent handling will have to be made good by the students
concerned.
2.15 Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student found ragging shall be
expelled from the University and FIRs lodged against them as per orders of the Honorable
Supreme Court.
2.16 Mobile cellular phone may be carried by the students. However, they shall be kept in silent
mode during the classes. Violation will lead to confiscation of the mobile phone.
2.17 All the students are required to observe the decorum in the dress code (as laid down by the
University) while moving in the Administrative/Academic block including Labs & Library on
working days. Students not adhering to the described and notified dress code may be denied
entry to the University,
2.18 Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs, cigarettes, hookah etc inside
the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any violation will invoke severe penalty including
rustication from the Hostel/ University. Students are expected not to indulge in any of the
above mentioned taboos even outside the campus as any report of same or detection of
33

same on entering the campus shall be dealt equally as if such an offence has taken place
inside the Campus
2.19 The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food served or procured from
outside agency or consumed with in the University premises including guest houses. Food
with eggs as ingredient may however be consumed. Fish, chicken, Meat of any kind however,
shall not be allowed inside the campus. Further, the same shall apply to utilization of silk on
the University Campus.
Library
3.1 Students must follow the Library rules for borrowing/using/returning books. They must show
their Identity Cards when asked for. The books must be returned on or before the due date
of return of the book.
3.2 Library books should be used with great care. Tearing or folding or cutting of Library books or
making any mark on them is not permitted and shall lead to disciplinary action. Any defect
noticed at the time of borrowing books must be brought to the notice of the Library staff
immediately, otherwise the borrower may be required to replace the book by a new copy
or pay double the cost of the book.
3.3 In open access Library of the University, replacement or misplacement of books on the shelves
by the readers is not desirable. Readers should leave the book on the table after use.
3.4 Library cards are non-transferable and they should be kept securely otherwise the borrower
shall be held responsible for the books issued against cards.
3.5 Before leaving the Library, a student should make sure of getting the books properly issued at
the counter against the card.
3.6 Personal property or books other than those belonging to the Library must be deposited at the
entrance gate.
3.7 The loss of Library books or borrowers card must be immediately brought to the notice of the
Learning Resource Manager (LRM) in writing.
3.8 Polite and courteous behavior inside the Library is expected from all the users and silence must
be observed inside the reading rooms.
Semester-wise Credits Chart
BA (JMC) 2017-2020
First Semester
34

Lecture Tutorial Practical
(L) (T) (P)
Pre Course Total
Course Title Hours Hours Hours
requisite Code Credits
per per per
week week week
- MCBA101P News Writing 2 0 4 4
- MCBA103P Editing and Design 2 0 4 4
- MCBA105P Digital Photography 1 0 6 4
- MCBA107L Basics of Advertising 4 0 0 4
MCBA109P Minor Project 0 1 6 4
EHSS101 Life skills 3 0 0 3
Developing Entrepreneurial
IENT103L 1 1 0 2
Mindset – I
Total 12 2 22 25
Second Semester
Lecture Tutorial Practical
(L) (T) (P)
Pre Course Total
Course Title Hours Hours Hours
requisite Code Credits
per per per
week week week
MCBA102P Digital Publishing 2 0 4 4
MCBA104P Social Media 2 0 4 4
MCBA106P Mobile Media 1 0 2 2
MCBA108P Solutions Journalism 0 0 4 2
MCBA110L Native Advertising 2 0 0 2
MCBA112P Minor Project 0 1 6 4
MCBA114L Environmental Studies 2 0 0 2
EHSS102 Organizational Behavior 3 0 0 3
Developing
IENT104L Entrepreneurial Mindset – 1 1 0 2
II
Total 13 2 20 25
BAJMC Third Semester
35

Lecture Practical
(L) Tutorial (P)
Pre Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours Hours
requisite Credits
per per week per
week week
MCBA201P Internship 0 0 0 4
MCBA203P Radio 2 0 4 4
Television
MCBA205P 3 0 6 6
Journalism
MCBA207L Public Relations 3 0 0 3
Theories of Mass
MCBA209L 4 0 0 4
Communication
MCBA211L Digital Advertising 2 0 0 2
MCBA213L Media Trends IA 1 0 0 1
Media Skills IA 0 0 4 2
MCBA215H
Minor Project
MCBA217H 0 0 8 4
(Radio & TV)
Total 15 0 22 30
BAJMC Fourth Semester
Lecture Practical
(L) Tutorial (P)
Pre Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours Hours
requisite Credits
per per week per
week week
Digital Film
MCBA202L 3 0 4 5
Making
Corporate
MCBA204L 3 0 2 4
Communication
MCBA206L Media Ethics 3 0 0 3
Brand Management
MCBA208L 3 0 0 3
and Media Planning
MCBA210L Media Trends IIA 1 0 0 1
Solutions
MCBA214P 4 0 0 4
Journalism
MCBA216H Media Skills IIA 0 0 4 2
Minor Project
MCBA218H 0 0 8 4
(Advertising & PR)
36

Total 17 0 18 26
BAJMC Fifth Semester
Lecture Practical
(L) Tutorial (P)
Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours Hours
Credits
per per week per
week week
MCBA303P Multimedia 2 0 4 4
Social Media
MCBA305P 2 0 4 4
Marketing
MCBA307L Event Management 4 0 0 4
MCBA309L Media Research 3 0 0 3
MCBA311L Media Law 3 0 0 3
MCBA313L Media Trends IIIA 1 0 0 1
MCBA315H Media Skills IIIA 0 0 4 2
Specialisation
MCBA317H 0 1 12 7
Project
MCBA317H -
Print Journalism
P
MCBA317H - Web and Mobile
W Journalism
Television
MCBA317H -T
Journalism
MCBA317H - Advertising and
A Public Relations
Total 15 1 24 28
BAJMC Sixth Semester
37

Lecture Practical
(L) Tutorial (P)
Pre Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours Hours
requisite Credits
per per week per
week week
MCBA302P Internship - - - 4
MCBA304L Business of Media 3 0 0 3
MCBA306L Media Trends IVA 1 0 0 1
MCBA308P Data Journalism 1 0 4 3
MCBA310H Media Skills IVA 0 0 2 1
MCBA312P Capstone Project 0 0 8 4
Total 5 0 14 16
BAJMC 2018-21
First Semester
Lecture
(L) Tutorial Practical
Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours (P) Hours
Credits
per per week per week
week
- MCBA101P News Writing 2 0 4 4
Editing and
- MCBA103P 2 0 4 4
Design
Digital
- MCBA105P 1 0 4 3
Photography
Basics of
- MCBA107L 4 0 0 4
Advertising
MCBA109L Media Trends I 1 0 0 1
MCBA111H Media Skills II 0 0 4 2
Minor Project
MCBA113H 0 0 8 4
(Print)
Developing
IENT101L Entrepreneurial 3 0 0 3
Mindset
Total 13 0 24 25
BAJMC Second Semester
38

Lecture Tutorial Practical Total
Course Code Course Title
(L) (T) (P) Credits
Web
MCBA102P 2 0 4 4
Journalism
MCBA104P Social Media 2 0 2 3
MCBA106P Mobile Media 2 0 2 3
Environmental
MCBA114L 3 0 0 3
Studies
Advertising
MCBA116L 4 0 0 4
Strategy
Media Trends
MCBA118L 1 0 0 1
II
Media Skills II 0 0 4 2
MCBA 110H
Minor Project
MCBA112H 0 0 8 4
(Web)
24
Total 14 0 20
BAJMC Third Semester
Lecture
(L) Tutorial Practical
Total
Course Code Course Title Hours (T) Hours (P) Hours
Credits
per per week per week
week
MCBA201P Radio 2 0 4 4
Television
MCBA203P 3 0 6 6
Journalism
Public
MCBA205L 3 0 0 3
Relations
Theories of
MCBA207L Mass 4 0 0 4
Communication
Digital and
MCBA209L Native 3 0 0 3
Advertising
Media Trends
MCBA211L 1 0 0 1
III
MCBA213H Media Skills III 0 0 4 2
39

Minor Project
MCBA215H 0 0 8 4
(Radio & TV)
Total 16 0 22 27
BAJMC Fourth Semester
Lecture Tutorial Practical Total
Course Code Course Title
(L) (T) H (P) Credits
Digital Film
MCBA202L 3 0 4 5
Making
Corporate
MCBA204L 3 0 2 4
Communication
MCBA206L Media Ethics 3 0 0 3
Brand
Management
MCBA208L 4 0 0 4
and Media
Planning
Media Trends
MCBA210L 1 0 0 1
IV
Solutions
MCBA214P 4 0 0 4
Journalism
Media Skills IV 0 0 4 2
MCBA216H
Minor Project
MCBA218H (Advertising & 0 0 8 4
PR)
Total 18 0 18 27
BAJMC Fifth Semester
Lecture Tutorial Practical Total
Course Code Course Title
(L) (T) (P) Credits
MCBA303P Multimedia 2 0 4 4
Social Media
MCBA305P 2 0 4 4
Marketing
Event
MCBA307L 4 0 0 4
Management
Media
MCBA309L 3 0 0 3
Research
MCBA311L Media Law 3 0 0 3
Media Trends
MCBA313L 1 0 0 1
V
MCBA315H Media Skills V 0 0 4 2
40

Minor Project
MCBA317H 0 0 8 4
(Specialisation)
Print
MCBA317H - P
Journalism
Web and
MCBA317H - W Mobile
Journalism
Television
MCBA317H -T
Journalism
Advertising and
MCBA317H - A Public
Relations
Total 15 0 20 25
BAJMC Sixth Semester
Lecture Tutorial Practical Total
Course Code Course Title
(L) (T) (P) Credits
MCBA302P Internship - - - 8
Business of
MCBA304L 3 0 0 3
Media
Media Trends
MCBA306L 1 0 0 1
VI
Data
MCBA308P 2 0 4 4
Journalism
Capstone
MCBA312P 0 0 12 6
Project
Total 6 0 16 22
BA (Journalism and Mass Communication) 2017-20 Course Outline
FIRST SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA101P: News Writing: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Evolution of Print Media: Press in pre-independent India, Role of English and
Vernacular Press, Press from Independence to Emergency, Press and Emergency, Changes in media
after Emergency; News agencies
Module II: Introduction to News: What is News, Elements of news and news values , News
Sources; Advantages and disadvantages of the Beat System, Role and responsibilities of a reporter
Module III: News Leads: What is a News Lead; Types of Leads, Writing news leads
Module IV: News Structure: Inverted Pyramid style of writing, Feature writing, Differences
between writing news reports and news features, Caption writing, Writing with clarity, Use of
Attribution, Writing news reports and features
Module V: Reporting Techniques: Conducting Interviews, Covering press conferences, Writing
from press releases, Objective Reporting, Interpretative Reporting, Investigative Reporting, Book
review, Film review, Theatre review
41

Course Code: MCBA103P: Editing and Design: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Terminology: Definition and explanation of terms used in Editing, Headline Writing,
Page Lay-out and Design
Module II: News Editing: Role and functions of a copy editor, Editing for clarity, objectivity and to
save space; Advanced Editing: Rewriting, Clubbing copy
Module III: Headline writing: Functions of a headline, Kinds of headlines, Headline writing
process, Do’s and Don’ts of headline writing
Module IV: News Design: Principles of news design and its objectives, Kinds of Layouts, Latest
design trends, Art of Dummying, Basics of Typography, Colours, Graphics and Photographs Module
V: Page Making: Master page set-up, Using Guidelines for better layout, Copy fitting and spacing ,
Making news and feature pages
Course Code: MCBA105P: Digital Photography: Credits: 04 (1-0-6)
Module I: Types of cameras: Pinhole camera, View camera, Compact camera, T L R, S L R,
Instant/Polaroid camera, Digital camera
Parts of a Camera: View finder, lens, iris, shutter, film chamber, light meter
Module II: Types of Lenses and their functions, Camera accessories, Image Sensors (CCD and
CMOS)
Module III: Working with DSLR camera: Exposure triangle, Depth of field , Impact of focal length
and aperture on depth of field, Focusing techniques, Use of AF Points
Module IV: Motion and Composition: Understanding the working of the shutter, Capturing motion,
Long exposures, Basic rules of composition,
Module V: Working with Light: Use of Flash , High key and Low key lighting (continuous and
strobe), Creation of silhouettes, High Dynamic range and Auto Exposure bracketing
Module VI: Photo-editing : Working with layers , Filters, cropping and retouching, Masking, Digital
Image Manipulation
Course Code: MCBA107L: Basics of Advertising: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module 1\I: Definition & Meaning of Advertising, Nature & Scope of Advertising, Ethical &
Regulatory Aspects of Advertising
Module II: Tools & Process: Advertising as Communication Tool, Communication Process &
Advertising, Models of Advertising Communication: AIDA Model, DAGMAR Model, Maslow’s
Hierarchy Model
Module III: Types & Creativity: Classification & Types of Advertising, Advertising Creativity:
Definition & Importance and Appeals of Advertising,
Elements of Print Advertising: Copy, Slogan, Identification Mark, Clashing Illustrations.
Module IV: Ad Agency: Role, Types, Structure and Functions, Client agency relationship – stages
Factors influencing client agency relationship, Processes, Techniques and Attitude to manage clients
Module V: Market Research: Definition and meaning, Types, Techniques and Tools, Data analysis
and interpretation, Segmentation and target profiling
Course Code: MCBA109P: Minor Project: Credits: 04 (0-1-6)
Practical work: Produce 12-page broadsheet weekly newspaper
42

SEMESTER II
Course Code: MCBA102P: DIGITAL PUBLISHING: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Basics of Internet: How Internet works, Internet Committee for Assigned Names and
Numbers, Internet Technology for the layman, IP addresses and Domain Names, National Internet
Exchange of India
Module II: Web Content: Characteristics of an Internet report; comparison with print/wire reports,
Scannable writing, Readable Writing, Searchable writing, News flow and news selection,
Content Curation, Content Management System
Module III: Web Headlines: Characteristics of Web Headlines, Differences with Print Headlines,
Clickbait Headlines, Headline writing tools,
Module IV: Search Engine Optimisation: How search engines work, On page search engine
optimisation, SEO campaign
Module V: Google Analytics: How Google analytics works, Monitoring traffic sources
Analysing traffic
Course Code: MCBA104P: SOCIAL MEDIA: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Social Media: Characteristics of Social Media, Differences with Traditional Media,
Kinds of Social Media platforms
Module II: Blogging and Microblogging: Characteristics of blogs, Writing headlines for blogs,
How Twitter works: Finding, following and listening,
Module III: Social Networking and Social Bookmarking: Characteristics of social networking
Groups, How to use LinkedIn: Company Pages, LinkedIn Groups, Publishing platform,
Module IV: Media sharing: Video sharing sites, Picture sharing sites, Audio sharing sites
Module V: Influencers: Identifying Influencers, The power of Influencers, Influencer Marketing,
Course Code: MCBA106P: MOBILE MEDIA: Credits: 02 (1-0-2)
Module 1: Overview: Mobile revolution and its impact on news creation and consumption Evolution
of Mobile sites
Module II: Mobile Journalism: Basic MoJo kit, Kinds of Mobile Content, SMS, MMS,
Notifications
Module III: Mobile Storytelling: Photo Essay, Podcasting, One to three minute videos, Editing on
Mobile Phones
Module IV: Mobile Apps: Kinds of Mobile Apps, Mobile Apps vs Mobile Websites,
How do Apps make money
Module V: Mobile Advertising: Kinds of mobile ads, Mobile ad terminology, Spectrum and its
impact on advertising, Status of mobile advertising in India
43

Course Code: MCBA108P: SOLUTIONS JOURNALISM Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Topic for this semester and Scope: Swachh Bharat campaign: Cleanliness in slums/villages,
Cleanliness in residential societies, Waste segregation, People's attitude to hygiene; Urban waste
disposal, Manual scavenging, Toilets/open defecation
Module I: What is Solutions-based Journalism, Journalism’s role in social change Positive changes
stimulated by media coverage, Forming teams and each team will discuss the problems areas of their
subject
Module II: Reporting boot camp: government policy & achievement claims on Swachh Bharat,
Discussing and analysis the issues based on information gathered on: Clean India Campaign
Module III
Research reporting: Prepare a questionnaire on your topic and write report based on sampling and
interviews on individual topics, Analysis of data: Breaking down data to tell stories Objective analysis
of the positive and negative sides of the Clean India campaign
Module IV: Submitting your pitch on Clean India campaign, Promoting right practices for Clean
India, Breaking down issues hindering Clean India campaign
Module V: Narrative reporting: picking the most interesting stories to sell your campaign, Policy
debate: based on research findings on the campaign, teams will debate the pros and cons of their
individual topics, Impelling change in the selected topics: what are the next steps to bring about
desired change in the topics chosen
Project Work: Produce a short film on the subject: 7 films, Produce a magazine on Clean India
Campaign: 70 stories
Course Code: MCBA 110L : NATIVE ADVERTISING: Credits: 02 (2-0-0)
Module I: Concept and Forms: Definition, Native Advertising in Print, Native Advertising on Web,
Advantages and Disadvantages
Module II: Print-based: Advertorials, Sponsored Content, Single Sponsor Issues, Product
Placement
Module III: Web-based: Closed Platforms, Open Platforms, Social Media
Module IV: Ad formats and Ethics: Internet Ad formats, Print Ad formats, Do’s & Don’ts
Course Code: MCBA114L: ENVIRONMENT STUDIES: Credits: 02 (2-0-0)
Module 1: Environmental and Natural Resources: Definition, scope, importance, need for public,
Natural Resources – forest resources – use, exploitation, deforestation, construction of multipurpose
dams, effect of forests, Water Resources – use of surface and subsurface water, effect of floods,
drought, water conflicts, Food Resources – food problem, advantages and disadvantages of fertilizers
and pesticides, effect on environment, Energy Resources – need to develop renewable energy, Land
Resources – land degradation, landslides, soil erosion, desertification and case studies.
Module II: Ecology And Bio-Diversity: Concept of ecosystem, structure and function of an
ecosystem, producers, consumers and decomposers, energy flow, ecological succession, food chain,
food web and ecological pyramids, Bio diversity: Definition, genetic, species and ecosystem
44

diversity, bio-geographical classification of India, hotspots, threats related to habitat loss, poaching
of wildlife, man-wildlife conflicts, conservation of bio-diversity.
Module III: Environmental Pollution: Definition – causes, pollution effects and control, measures
of Air, Water, Soil, Marine, Noise, Thermal, Nuclear hazards.
Solid waste management: causes, effects and control measures of urban and industrial waste,
pollution measures, case studies, Disaster management: floods, earthquake, cyclone and landslides.
Module IV: Social Issues And The Environment: Urban problems related to energy and
sustainable development, water conservation, rain water harvesting, watershed management,
Problems related to rehabilitation – case studies, wasteland reclamation, Consumerism and waste
products – Environment Protection Act, Air Water, Wildlife, Forest Conservation Act,
Environmental legislation and public awareness.
Module V: Human Population And The Environment: Population growth, variation among
nations, Population explosion – Family Welfare Programme, Environmental and human health,
Human Rights, Value Education, HIV / AIDS, Women and Child Welfare, Role of Information
Technology – Visit to local polluted site / Case studies.
Customer Orientation – QFD – CSM – TQM Models – Case studies.
Course Code: MCBA112P: MINOR PROJECT: Credits: 04 (0-1-6)
Practical work: Create website content in text and video formats.
SEMSTER III
Course Code: MCBA203P: RADIO: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Introduction to Radio: Characteristics of radio, Evolution of radio in India, All India
Radio, FM Radio, Role of Prasar Bharati Corporation
Module II: Structure of Radio Station: Hierarchy , Job Profiles
Module III: The Grammar of Sound: Basics of sound: frequency, amplitude and wavelength,
Radio frequencies: AM and FM transmission, Elements of Sound: Volume, Tone, Loudness,
Frequency, Intensity, Pitch, Types of Sound: speech, silence, ambient and machine-made noise,
Sound effects and its functions
Module IV: Radio Production: Scripting, Preparing Cue Sheets, Writing RJ Links, Recording
programmes, Doing voiceover, Editing audio files using Audacity
Course Code: MCBA205P: TELEVISION JOURNALISM: Credits: 06 (3-0-6)
Module I: History and Current Status: Evolution of Television in India, Regulatory bodies: Prasar
Bharti Corporation, News Broadcasters Association of India, TRP and its impact on TV programming
(News & Entertainment), Television Newsroom
Module II: Visual Communication: Basic shots and camera movement, Aesthetics of the shot:
Composition, perspective, angles, sizes and depth, Focus, white balance, aperture and gain, PTC
(Piece to camera) and VO (Voice over), Sequencing and editing news packages.
Module II: Television Pre-production: Ideation Research and recce, Script writing, and writing to
visuals, Shooting and editing schedules, Cues and commands, Research, investigation, interview
techniques, The art of preparing bulletins and rundowns
Module III: Production: TV lighting: in field, studio lighting, three-point lighting, High and low
key lighting Single camera shooting, Types of lights, Studio sets and make-up., Multi camera
shooting
45

Module IV: Post-production: Principles of Editing, Editing a news bulletin, Visual transitions:
digital effects, and post production, Cutting promos and treasures,
Module V: Television Anchoring: Body language and grooming, Voice broadcast skills:
pronunciation, flow and modulation, Facing a camera: eye contact, use of teleprompter News
anchoring, field interviews and anchoring various TV shows
Course Code: MCBA207L: PUBLIC RELATIONS: Credits: 03 (3-0-0) Module I:
Introduction to Public Relations: Definition, Concept and Scope
Difference between PR, Publicity, Propaganda, Advertising and Lobbying
Ethics of PR – IPRA code – Professionalism and PRSI
Module II: PR Department: Basic Functions, Structure of In-house PR Department, Limitations
of In-house PR Department, Attributes and skill sets of a PR Manager
Module III: Tools & Techniques: Elements of a Press Kit, Press Release, Company Profile
Newsletter, House Journal, Annual Report
Module- IV: Public Relations Campaign: Finding a problem, PR campaign - planning, evaluation,
Research in PR
Unit V: Press Conference: Learning pre-conference needs, Organising press conference
Unit VI: PR and Crisis management: What is a Crisis?, Types of organizational crisis
Crisis Management: Meaning and the various stages, Need for PR in Crisis Management
Crisis Team, Crisis Communication Plan, Crisis PR Planning
Course Code: MCBA209L: THEORIES OF MASS COMMUNICATION: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Communication: Process and elements of communications, Levels of
communication, The 7Cs of effective communication, Barriers to effective communication, Forms
and Functions of communication
Module II: Traditional Media: Introduction to traditional media, Oral Tradition of story-telling
since early civilization, Influence on contemporary forms of mass communication Types: street
theatre, puppetry, music, dance/ballads, folk and tribal art, local fairs, Case studies of each form,
Strengths and limitations, Relationship with the society: tool for political, social, economic, and
health awareness, Present Scenario
Module III: Forms of Communication: Intra-personal communication, Inter-personal
communication, Group communication: public, crowd, small group, and mass communication,
Verbal and non-verbal communication, Meaning and barriers in verbal communication, Non-verbal
behavior as communication, Body language, Facial communication, Space communication, silence,
paralanguage and temporal communication.
Module IV: Models of Communication: SMRC model, Shannon and Weaver model, Laswell
model, Osgood model, Dance model, Schramm model
Module V: The four eras: Four eras in mass communication theories, Era of mass society theory
(1850-1940), Era of scientific perspective on mass media (1940-1950)
Era of limited effects (1950-60s), Era of cultural criticism (1960s-19980s)
ourse Code: MCBA211L: DIGITAL ADVERTISING: Credits: 02 (2-0-0)
Unit I: Overview: What is digital advertising, Differences with traditional advertising
Kinds of digital ads
Unit II: Ad metrics: Impressions, Reach, Cost, Visits, Unique visitors
46

Sessions, Engagement Rate, Click through rate, Pay per click, Cost per click, Pay per sale, Cost per
Thousand Impressions Unit III: Pay per click advertising: AdWords and Ad Sense, Creating
text/banner ads
Creating Ad campaigns, Monitoring Ad campaigns, Improving conversion rate
Assignment: Create Pay per Click campaign
Course Code: MCBA213L: MEDIA TRENDS IA: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA215H: MEDIA SKILLS IA: Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
MCBA217H: MINOR PROJECT (RADIO & TV): Credits: 04 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Produce content for TV news bulletins and Internet radio.
Course Code: MCBA201P: INTERNSHIP I: Credits: 04
Practical work: Spend six to eight weeks in a media company.
SEMESTER IV
Course Code: MCBA202L: DIGITAL FILM MAKING: Credits: 05 (3-0-4)
Module I: Digital Film Making: Understanding Workflow of digital film production,
Knowing Shot, sequence and story, Knowing film Equipment, VFX and AFX
Module II: Scriptwriting: Narrative Composition: 3 plot structure, Characterization & Dramatic
Structure, Scriptwriting formats, Step outline & shot break down, Screen Play, Storyboarding &
shooting script
Module III: Editing Techniques: Technical vs. Creative editing, Basic transitions, Match cut, jump
cut, cut-in & cut-away, Parallel cutting & inter-cutting, Intellectual editing & Montage theory,
Techniques of editing: Action sequence, comedy sequence, Romantic sequence, conversation
sequences, chasing sequence, music video etc., Use of graphics & animation
Module IV: Documentary production: Identifying subject, Research and recce, Writing Script
and treatment, Acquiring Permissions and clearances, Scheduling, Shooting,
Writing narration, Post production using Editing software
Module V: Fiction Film Production: Ideation and writing Story, Writing screenplay using Celtx,
Drawing storyboard using Celtx, Casting and Budgeting, Preparing shooting scheduling, Shooting
and treatment, Post production using FCP
Course Code: MCBA204L: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION: Credits: 04 (3-0-2)
Module I: Introduction to Corporate Communication: Concept, meaning, definition and
evolution, Corporate communication functions
Module II: Corporate Communication Strategy: Corporate social responsibility, Building a
distinct corporate identity: concepts, variables and process, Reputation Management, Investor
Relations
Module III: Media Relations: Organizing press conferences, Facility visits,
Press Release, Proactive and reactive media relations, Digital tools: Websites and Blogs, Social
Media and Corporate Communication
Module IV: Crisis Management: Concept, definition and types of crisis, Crisis management
techniques: study of symmetrical, and asymmetrical models in handling crises
47

Course Code: MCBA206L: MEDIA ETHICS: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module I: The grey line: What is Ethics, Truth, Fairness & Objectivity
Module II: Guidelines: Press Council Guidelines, Advertising Council of India Guidelines
Broadcast Guidelines
Module III: Issues and Values: Editorial & Advertorial, Digital manipulation, Paid news
Obscenity and Morality Module IV: Right to Privacy: Privacy law, PCI guidelines on
privacy, Violations and Issues
Course Code: MCBA208L: BRAND MANAGEMENT AND MEDIA PLANNING: Credits:
03 (3-0-0)
Module I: Concept of a Brand: Defining Brands, Evolution of Brands , Characteristics of Brand
Name, Why Branding is important, Company, Brands & Products, Brand Perspectives – Visual /
Verbal, Positioning, Value, Brand Image, Value Added, Perceptual Appeal & Personality
perspectives
Module II: Brand Decisions: Brand Positioning – Attribute Benefit, Application, User, Competitor,
Price / Quality & Product Category positioning, Brand Differentiation, Brand Equity,
Brand Image, Brand Extension, Brand Loyalty, Consumers and Brands
Module III: Branding Strategies: Product Branding, Line Branding, Range Branding,
Umbrella Branding, Source/Double Branding, Endorsement Branding
Module IV: Media Planning: What is Media Planning? Why is it important, Media mix
Factors that influence media strategy
Module V: Matching media & market: Geographical selectivity, reach & frequency,
Maximizing advertising exposure, Media brief
Module VI: Media Buying: Media Buying functions, Increasing complexity in Media Buying
Media scheduling
Course Code: MCBA210L: MEDIA TRENDS IIA: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA214P: SOLUTIONS JOURNALISM: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Work on a socio-economic project. Details of the project will be decided at the start of the semester.
Course Code: MCBA216H: MEDIA SKILLS IIA: Credits: 02
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA218H: MINOR PROJECT (ADVERTISING & PR): Credits: 04 (0—08)
Practical work: Create a 360 degree advertising and PR campaign; Launch a website or microsite
with their campaigns
FIFTH SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA303P: MULTIMEDIA: Credits: (2-0-4)
Module I: Basics of Multimedia: Definition of Multimedia, Elements of Multimedia Skill sets
needed for Multimedia Team, Multimedia Hardware and software
Module II: Creation of Multimedia: Fonts and use of Text, Use of Hypertext , Use of Animation
and Sound, Use of Still images and Video files
Module III: Software Tools: Word Processing, Photo-editing, Sound editing, Video editing
Graphics and Animation
48

Course Code: MCBA305P: SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Facebook for Business: Creating Facebook Page, Upload contacts for invitation, Create
content, Increase Fans, Case Studies,
Module II: Facebook Advertising: Ad targeting strategies, Payment modules, Conversion tracking
Module III: Twitter Marketing: Tools to listen on Twitter: Tweetdeck, Klout, How to market on
Twitter, Twitter advertising, Case studies
Module IV: LinkedIn for Companies: Lead Generation through Individual Profiles, Lead
Generation as Enterprise: Company Page, Ads, Groups,
Module V: Pinterest Boards: Creating shareable pins, Engage with followers, Case Studies
Course Code: MCBA307L: EVENT MANAGEMENT: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Events: What is an event? 5 Cs of events, Events as marketing
communication tool, Size of events, Structure of Event company, Types of events: Artistic,
Competitive, Cultural, Exhibition, Charitable, Special Business
Module II: Structure of Events and Activities: Pre-event: Developing the Concept, Goals Mission,
Vision, Pre Event Promotions, Checklist, Venue, Vendor Management, Budgeting On The Day:
Promotion, Ticketing, Event Activities, Post-Event: Company – Customer Relationship, Follow-Up
Reports And Feedback
Module III: Event Planning and Proposal: Conceptualization, Research and Planning an event,
Pre-event planning and marketing, Role and Importance of Event proposal, Writing Event Proposal
Sponsorship, Event Budgeting
Module IV: Evaluation and Assessment: Market Research, Risk management, Negotiation
techniques, Communications: Reaching the Customer, Communication Mix, Developing and
Communicating a Positive Image, Evaluation and Impact Assessment, Evaluation Concepts,
Observation Techniques, Applications, Evaluation of Costs and Benefits
Course Code: MCBA309L: MEDIA RESEARCH: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Research: Definition, Meaning and Importance of Research,
Types and Approaches of Research, Defining a Research Problem, Writing a research proposal,
Literature Review
Module II: Research Process: Research Design and Research Questions, Various techniques of
sampling, Methods of data collection, Preparing questionnaires and schedules
Processing and analyzing data, Ethical Issues in Research
Module III: Media Research Methods: How media research is different,
Content Analysis, Textual and image analysis, Participatory and Non Participatory, observation
techniques, Focus Group and Longitudinal Study, Case Study method,
Historical and archival research, Ethnography
Module IV: Research Report Writing: Data analysis techniques, Basics of SPSS
ANOVA and Chi-Square test, Writing research report and conclusions, Abstract and References
Course Code: MCBA311L: MEDIA LAW: Credits: 03 (3-0-0) Module I: Freedom of speech
and expression: Constitutional Provisions
Module II: Right to Information Act: Important provisions, How to use RTI to get information
Module III: Defamation: Kinds of defamation, Legal provisions
Module IV: Contempt of Court: What constitutes contempt, Points to be kept in mind while
reporting legal issues
Module V: Broadcast Laws: Cable TV Regulation Act, Self-regulation, issues and legal
intervention
49

Module VI: Cinematograph Act: Legal provisions, Issues and Amendments
Module VII: Information Technology Act 2008: Main provisions and amendments,
Important cases
Course Code: MCBA313L: MEDIA TRENDS IIIA: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA315H: MEDIA SKILLS IIIA: Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA317H: MINOR PROJECT (SPECIALISATION): Credits: 07 (0-1-12)
Practical work: Based on the media chosen by the students.
SIXTH SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA302P: INTERNSHIP II: Credits: 04
The student will be sent to intern in a media company for six to eight weeks.
Course Code: MCBA304L: THE BUSINESS OF MEDIA: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module 1: Overview: Media as an industry, Major stakeholders of media firms, Understanding
demographics and psychographics of audience, Organisational culture and its impact on media firms
Unit II: Revenue and Expenditure: Revenue sources of traditional and digital media, Main
expenditure heads of traditional and digital media, Media Metrics and reach, Trends and opportunities
Unit III: Convergence and its impact: Effect of technology on media distribution and consumption,
Trends in ownership, media consolidation, mergers and acquisitions Challenges from emerging
media platforms, Impact of media globalization on Indian market
Course Code: MCBA306L: MEDIA TRENDS IVA: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA308P: DATA JOURNALISM: Credits: 03 (1-0-4) Module I:
Introduction to Data Journalism: Definition and historical perspective,
Scope: Why Data Journalism is important for a reporter, Skills required by a data journalist
Module II: Finding and Understanding Data: Where to look for data, Setting up data news wires,
Strategic searching - tips and tricks, Introduction to scraping, Turning numbers into stories,
Become Data Literate
Module III: Working with Data: Working with Excel, Cleaning data, Correcting bad formatting;
taking care of misspellings, Invalid values and duplicates
Module IV: Evaluating Data: Newsroom math and statistics, Making new variables with functions,
Summarizing data with pivot tables, Looking for patterns
Module V: Putting the Data Story Together: Deciding the central focus, Including data within a
narrative, Ethics of finding and using data, Data Visualisation
Course Code: MCBA310H: MEDIA SKILLS IVA: Credits: 01 (0-0-2)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA312P: CAPSTONE PROJECT: Credits: 04
Practical work: Create a project that is of publishable or broadcast quality.
50

BA (Journalism and Mass Communication) 2018-21 Course Outline
FIRST SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA101P: NEWS WRITING: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Evolution of Print Media: Press in pre-independent India, Role of English and
Vernacular Press, Press from Independence to Emergency, Press and Emergency, Changes in media
after Emergency; News agencies
Module II: Introduction to News: What is News, Elements of news and news values , News
Sources; Advantages and disadvantages of the Beat System, Role and responsibilities of a reporter
Module III: News Leads: What is a News Lead; Types of Leads, Writing news leads
Module IV: News Structure: Inverted Pyramid style of writing, Feature writing, Differences
between writing news reports and news features, Caption writing, Writing with clarity, Use of
Attribution, Writing news reports and features
Module V: Reporting Techniques: Conducting Interviews, Covering press conferences, Writing
from press releases, Objective Reporting, Interpretative Reporting, Investigative Reporting, Book
review, Film review, Theatre review
Course Code: MCBA103P: EDITING AND DESIGN: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Newspaper Terminology: Definition and explanation of terms used in Editing, Headline
Writing, Page Lay-out and Design
Module II: Editing Basics: Role and functions of a copy editor, Editing for clarity, objectivity and
to save space; Advanced Editing: Rewriting, Clubbing copy
Module III: Headline writing: Functions of a headline, Kinds of headlines, Headline writing
process, Do’s and Don’ts of headline writing
Module IV: News Design: Principles of news design and its objectives, Kinds of Layouts, Latest
design trends, Art of Dummying, Basics of Typography, Colours, Graphics and Photographs Module
V: Page Making: Master page set-up, Using Guidelines for better layout, Copy fitting and spacing ,
Making news and feature pages
Course Code: MCBA105P: DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY: Credits: 03 (1-0-4)
Module I: Types of cameras: Pinhole camera, View camera, Compact camera, T L R, S L R,
Instant/Polaroid camera, Digital camera
Parts of a Camera: View finder, lens, iris, shutter, film chamber, light meter
Module II: Types of Lenses and their functions, Camera accessories, Image Sensors (CCD and
CMOS)
Module III: Working with DSLR camera: Exposure triangle, Depth of field , Impact of focal length
and aperture on depth of field, Focusing techniques, Use of AF Points
51

Module IV: Motion and Composition: Understanding the working of the shutter, Capturing motion,
Long exposures, Basic rules of composition,
Module V: Working with Light: Use of Flash , High key and Low key lighting (continuous and
strobe), Creation of silhouettes, High Dynamic range and Auto Exposure bracketing
Module VI: Photo-editing : Working with layers , Filters, cropping and retouching, Masking, Digital
Image Manipulation
Course Code: MCBA107L: BASICS OF ADVERTISING: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Introduction: Definition & Meaning of Advertising, Nature & Scope of Advertising,
Ethical & Regulatory Aspects of Advertising
Module II: Advertising: Tools & Process: Advertising as Communication Tool, Communication
Process & Advertising, Models of Advertising Communication:
AIDA Model, DAGMAR Model, Maslow’s Hierarchy Model Module
III: Classification & Types: Classification & Types of Advertising , Advertising
Creativity: Definition & Importance and Appeals of Advertising, Elements of Print Advertising:
Copy, Slogan, Identification Mark, Clashing Illustrations.
Module IV: Ad Agency Structure & Client orientation: Ad Agency - Role, Types, Structure and
Functions, Client agency relationship – stages, Factors influencing client agency relationship,
Processes, Techniques and Attitude to manage clients
Module V: Market Research and Segmentation: Definition and meaning of Market Research,
Market Research – Types, Techniques and Tools, Data analysis and interpretation, Segmentation and
target profiling
Course Code: MCBA109L: MEDIA TRENDS I: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA111H: MEDIA SKILLS I: Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA113H: Minor Project: Credits: 04 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Produce 12-page broadsheet weekly newspaper
SECOND SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA102P: WEB JOURNALISM: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Basics of Internet: How Internet works, Internet Committee for Assigned Names and
Numbers, Internet Technology for the layman, IP addresses and Domain Names, National Internet
Exchange of India
Module II: Web Content: Characteristics of an Internet report; comparison with print/wire reports,
Scannable writing, Readable Writing, Searchable writing, News flow and news selection,
Content Curation, Content Management System
Module III: Web Headlines: Characteristics of Web Headlines, Differences with Print Headlines,
Clickbait Headlines, Headline writing tools,
Module IV: Website design: Objectives of Web Design, Differences with Print Design,
Designing a Website, Economics of Web Designing
52

Module V: Search Engine Optimisation: How search engines work, How Google analytics works,
Monitoring traffic sources
Course Code: MCBA104P: SOCIAL MEDIA: Credits: 03 (2-0-2)
Module I: Social Media: Characteristics of Social Media, Differences with Traditional Media,
Kinds of Social Media platforms
Module II: Blogging and Microblogging: Characteristics of blogs, Writing headlines for blogs,
How Twitter works: Finding, following and listening,
Module III: Social Networking and Social Bookmarking: Characteristics of social networking
Groups, How to use LinkedIn: Company Pages, LinkedIn Groups, Publishing platform,
Module IV: Media sharing: Video sharing sites, Picture sharing sites, Audio sharing sites
Module V: Influencers: Identifying Influencers, The power of Influencers, Influencer Marketing,
Course Code: MCBA106P: MOBILE MEDIA: Credits: 03 (2-0-2)
Module 1: Overview: Mobile revolution and its impact on news creation and consumption Evolution
of Mobile sites
Module II: Mobile Journalism: Basic MoJo kit, Kinds of Mobile Content, SMS, MMS,
Notifications
Module III: Mobile Storytelling: Photo Essay, Podcasting, One to three minute videos,
Editing on Mobile Phones
Module IV: Mobile Apps: Kinds of Mobile Apps, Mobile Apps vs Mobile Websites,
How do Apps make money
Module V: Mobile Advertising: Kinds of mobile ads, Mobile ad terminology, Spectrum and its
impact on advertising, Status of mobile advertising in India
Course Code: MCBA110H: MEDIA SKILLS II: Credits: 02 (0=0=4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA112H: MINOR PROJECT (WEB & MOBILE): Credits: 04 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Produce content for TV news bulletins and Internet radio.
Course Code: MCBA114L: ENVIRONMENT STUDIES: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module 1: Environmental and Natural Resources: Definition, scope, importance, need for public,
Natural Resources – forest resources – use, exploitation, deforestation, construction of multipurpose
dams, effect of forests, Water Resources – use of surface and subsurface water, effect of floods,
drought, water conflicts, Food Resources – food problem, advantages and disadvantages of fertilizers
and pesticides, effect on environment, Energy Resources – need to develop renewable energy, Land
Resources – land degradation, landslides, soil erosion, desertification and case studies.
Module II: Ecology And Bio-Diversity: Concept of ecosystem, structure and function of an
ecosystem, producers, consumers and decomposers, energy flow, ecological succession, food chain,
food web and ecological pyramids, Bio diversity: Definition, genetic, species and ecosystem
diversity, bio-geographical classification of India, hotspots, threats related to habitat loss, poaching
of wildlife, man-wildlife conflicts, conservation of bio-diversity.
Module III: Environmental Pollution: Definition – causes, pollution effects and control, measures
of Air, Water, Soil, Marine, Noise, Thermal, Nuclear hazards.
53

Solid waste management: causes, effects and control measures of urban and industrial waste,
pollution measures, case studies, Disaster management: floods, earthquake, cyclone and landslides.
Module IV: Social Issues And The Environment: Urban problems related to energy and
sustainable development, water conservation, rain water harvesting, watershed management,
Problems related to rehabilitation – case studies, wasteland reclamation, Consumerism and waste
products – Environment Protection Act, Air Water, Wildlife, Forest Conservation Act,
Environmental legislation and public awareness.
Module V: Human Population And The Environment: Population growth, variation among
nations, Population explosion – Family Welfare Programme, Environmental and human health,
Human Rights, Value Education, HIV / AIDS, Women and Child Welfare, Role of Information
Technology – Visit to local polluted site / Case studies.
Customer Orientation – QFD – CSM – TQM Models – Case studies.
Course Code: MCBA112P: MINOR PROJECT: Credits: 04 (0-1-6)
Practical work: Create website content in text and video formats.
Course Code: MCBA 116L: ADVERTISING STRATEGY: Credits: 04
Module I: Advertising Strategy: Definition, Strategy format, Asking better questions, Tips and
techniques to arrive at a sound strategy, Benefits of a sound advertising strategy
Module II: Setting Objectives: Definition, Environment scan, , Marketing Objective Advertising
Objective
Module III: Consumer Pen Portraits: Identifying relevant consumer segments, Culling Consumer
Insights, Understanding socio-economic, cultural and legal drivers, Crafting pen portraits
Module IV: Unique Selling Proposition: Definition, Formats/Types, Brand science, Do’s
and Don’ts
Course Code: MCBA118L: MEDIA TRENDS II: Credits: 01 (01-0-0) Examination Scheme:
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media
SEMSTER III
Course Code: MCBA201P: RADIO: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Introduction to Radio: Characteristics of radio, Evolution of radio in India, All India
Radio, FM Radio, Role of Prasar Bharati Corporation
Module II: Structure of Radio Station: Hierarchy, Job Profiles
Module III: The Grammar of Sound: Basics of sound: frequency, amplitude and wavelength,
Radio frequencies: AM and FM transmission, Elements of Sound: Volume, Tone, Loudness,
Frequency, Intensity, Pitch, Types of Sound: speech, silence, ambient and machine-made noise,
Sound effects and its functions
54

Module IV: Radio Production: Scripting, Preparing Cue Sheets, Writing RJ Links, Recording
programmes, Doing voiceover, Editing audio files using Audacity
Course Code: MCBA203P: TELEVISION JOURNALISM: Credits: 06 (3-0-6)
Module I: History and Current Status: Evolution of Television in India, Regulatory bodies: Prasar
Bharti Corporation, News Broadcasters Association of India, TRP and its impact on TV programming
(News & Entertainment), Television Newsroom
Module II: Visual Communication: Basic shots and camera movement, Aesthetics of the shot:
Composition, perspective, angles, sizes and depth, Focus, white balance, aperture and gain, PTC
(Piece to camera) and VO (Voice over), Sequencing and editing news packages.
Module II: Television Pre-production: Ideation Research and recce, Script writing, and writing to
visuals, Shooting and editing schedules, Cues and commands, Research, investigation, interview
techniques, The art of preparing bulletins and rundowns
Module III: Production: TV lighting: in field, studio lighting, three-point lighting, High and low
key lighting Single camera shooting, Types of lights, Studio sets and make-up., Multi camera
shooting
Module IV: Post-production: Principles of Editing, Editing a news bulletin, Visual transitions:
digital effects, and post production, Cutting promos and treasures,
Module V: Television Anchoring: Body language and grooming, Voice broadcast skills:
pronunciation, flow and modulation, Facing a camera: eye contact, use of teleprompter News
anchoring, field interviews and anchoring various TV shows
Course Code: MCBA205L: PUBLIC RELATIONS: Credits: 03 (3-0-0) Module I:
Introduction to Public Relations: Definition, Concept and Scope
Difference between PR, Publicity, Propaganda, Advertising and Lobbying
Ethics of PR – IPRA code – Professionalism and PRSI
Module II: PR Department: Basic Functions, Structure of In-house PR Department, Limitations
of In-house PR Department, Attributes and skill sets of a PR Manager
Module III: Tools & Techniques: Elements of a Press Kit, Press Release, Company Profile
Newsletter, House Journal, Annual Report
Module- IV: Public Relations Campaign: Finding a problem, PR campaign - planning, evaluation,
Research in PR
Unit V: Press Conference: Learning pre-conference needs, Organising press conference
Unit VI: PR and Crisis management: What is a Crisis?, Types of organizational crisis
Crisis Management: Meaning and the various stages, Need for PR in Crisis Management
Crisis Team, Crisis Communication Plan, Crisis PR Planning
Course Code: MCBA207L: THEORIES OF MASS COMMUNICATION: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Communication: Process and elements of communications, Levels of
communication, The 7Cs of effective communication, Barriers to effective communication, Forms
and Functions of communication
55

Module II: Traditional Media: Introduction to traditional media, Oral Tradition of story-telling
since early civilization, Influence on contemporary forms of mass communication Types: street
theatre, puppetry, music, dance/ballads, folk and tribal art, local fairs, Case studies of each form,
Strengths and limitations, Relationship with the society: tool for political, social, economic, and
health awareness, Present Scenario
Module III: Forms of Communication: Intra-personal communication, Inter-personal
communication, Group communication: public, crowd, small group, and mass communication,
Verbal and non-verbal communication, Meaning and barriers in verbal communication, Non-verbal
behavior as communication, Body language, Facial communication, Space communication, silence,
paralanguage and temporal communication.
Module IV: Models of Communication: SMRC model, Shannon and Weaver model, Laswell
model, Osgood model, Dance model, Schramm model
Module V: The four eras: Four eras in mass communication theories, Era of mass society theory
(1850-1940), Era of scientific perspective on mass media (1940-1950)
Era of limited effects (1950-60s), Era of cultural criticism (1960s-19980s)
Course Code: MCBA209L: DIGITAL AND Native ADVERTISING: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module I: Overview and Ad metrics: What is digital advertising, Differences with traditional
advertising, Kinds of digital ads, Impressions, Reach, Cost, Visits, Unique visitors
Sessions, Engagement Rate, Click through rate, Pay per click, Cost per click, Pay per sale, Cost per
Thousand Impressions
Module II: Pay per click advertising: AdWords and Ad Sense, Creating text/banner ads, Creating
Ad campaigns, Monitoring Ad campaigns, Improving conversion rate, Assignment: Create Pay per
Click campaign
Module III: Native Advertising - Concept and Forms: Definition, Native Advertising in Print,
Native Advertising on Web, Advantages and Disadvantages
Module IV: Print-based: Advertorials, Sponsored Content, Single Sponsor Issues, Product
Placement, Print Ad formats, Do’s and Don’ts
Module IV: Web-based: Closed Platforms, Open Platforms, Social Media, Internet Ad formats,
Do’s and Don’ts
Course Code: MCBA211L: MEDIA TRENDS III: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA213H: MEDIA SKILLS III: Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
MCBA215H: MINOR PROJECT (RADIO & TV): Credits: 04 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Produce content for TV news bulletins and Internet radio.
SEMESTER IV
Course Code: MCBA202L: DIGITAL FILM MAKING: Credits: 05 (3-0-4)
Module I: Digital Film Making: Understanding Workflow of digital film production,
Knowing Shot, sequence and story, Knowing film Equipment, VFX and AFX
56

Module II: Scriptwriting: Narrative Composition: 3 plot structure, Characterization & Dramatic
Structure, Scriptwriting formats, Step outline & shot break down, Screen Play, Storyboarding &
shooting script
Module III: Editing Techniques: Technical vs. Creative editing, Basic transitions, Match cut, jump
cut, cut-in & cut-away, Parallel cutting & inter-cutting, Intellectual editing & Montage theory,
Techniques of editing: Action sequence, comedy sequence, Romantic sequence, conversation
sequences, chasing sequence, music video etc., Use of graphics & animation
Module IV: Documentary production: Identifying subject, Research and recce, Writing Script
and treatment, Acquiring Permissions and clearances, Scheduling, Shooting,
Writing narration, Post production using Editing software
Module V: Fiction Film Production: Ideation and writing Story, Writing screenplay using Celtx,
Drawing storyboard using Celtx, Casting and Budgeting, Preparing shooting scheduling, Shooting
and treatment, Post production using FCP
Course Code: MCBA204L: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION: Credits: 04 (3-0-2)
Module I: Introduction to Corporate Communication: Concept, meaning, definition and
evolution, Corporate communication functions
Module II: Corporate Communication Strategy: Corporate social responsibility, Building a
distinct corporate identity: concepts, variables and process, Reputation Management, Investor
Relations
Module III: Media Relations: Organizing press conferences, Facility visits,
Press Release, Proactive and reactive media relations, Digital tools: Websites and Blogs, Social
Media and Corporate Communication
Module IV: Crisis Management: Concept, definition and types of crisis, Crisis management
techniques: study of symmetrical, and asymmetrical models in handling crises
Course Code: MCBA206L: MEDIA ETHICS: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module I: The grey line: What is Ethics, Truth, Fairness & Objectivity
Module II: Guidelines: Press Council Guidelines, Advertising Council of India Guidelines
Broadcast Guidelines
Module III: Issues and Values: Editorial & Advertorial, Digital manipulation, Paid news
Obscenity and Morality
Module IV: Right to Privacy: Privacy law, PCI guidelines on privacy, Violations and Issues
Course Code: MCBA208L: BRAND MANAGEMENT AND MEDIA PLANNING: Credits:
04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Concept of a Brand: Defining Brands, Evolution of Brands , Characteristics of Brand
Name, Why Branding is important, Company, Brands & Products, Brand Perspectives – Visual /
Verbal, Positioning, Value, Brand Image, Value Added, Perceptual Appeal & Personality
perspectives
57

Module II: Brand Decisions: Brand Positioning – Attribute Benefit, Application, User, Competitor,
Price / Quality & Product Category positioning, Brand Differentiation, Brand Equity,
Brand Image, Brand Extension, Brand Loyalty, Consumers and Brands
Module III: Branding Strategies: Product Branding, Line Branding, Range Branding,
Umbrella Branding, Source/Double Branding, Endorsement Branding
Module IV: Media Planning: What is Media Planning? Why is it important, Media mix
Factors that influence media strategy
Module V: Matching media & market: Geographical selectivity, reach & frequency,
Maximizing advertising exposure, Media brief
Module VI: Media Buying: Media Buying functions, Increasing complexity in Media Buying
Media scheduling
Course Code: MCBA210L: MEDIA TRENDS IV: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA214P: SOLUTIONS JOURNALISM: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Work on a socio-economic project. Details of the project will be decided at the start of the semester.
Course Code: MCBA216H: MEDIA SKILLS IV: Credits: 02
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA218H: MINOR PROJECT (ADVERTISING & PR): Credits: 04 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Create a 360 degree advertising and PR campaign; Launch a website or microsite
with their campaigns
FIFTH SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA303P: MULTIMEDIA: Credits: (2-0-4)
Module I: Basics of Multimedia: Definition of Multimedia, Elements of Multimedia Skill sets
needed for Multimedia Team, Multimedia Hardware and software
Module II: Creation of Multimedia: Fonts and use of Text, Use of Hypertext , Use of Animation
and Sound, Use of Still images and Video files
Module III: Software Tools: Word Processing, Photo-editing, Sound editing, Video editing
Graphics and Animation
Course Code: MCBA305P: SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING: Credits: 04 (2-0-4)
Module I: Facebook for Business: Creating Facebook Page, Upload contacts for invitation, Create
content, Increase Fans, Case Studies,
Module II: Facebook Advertising: Ad targeting strategies, Payment modules, Conversion tracking
Module III: Twitter Marketing: Tools to listen on Twitter: Tweetdeck, Klout, How to market on
Twitter, Twitter advertising, Case studies
Module IV: LinkedIn for Companies: Lead Generation through Individual Profiles,
Lead Generation as Enterprise: Company Page, Ads, Groups,
Module V: Pinterest Boards: Creating shareable pins, Engage with followers, Case Studies
Course Code: MCBA307L: EVENT MANAGEMENT: Credits: 04 (4-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Events: What is an event? 5 Cs of events, Events as marketing
communication tool, Size of events, Structure of Event company, Types of events: Artistic,
Competitive, Cultural, Exhibition, Charitable, Special Business
58

Module II: Structure of Events and Activities: Pre-event: Developing the Concept, Goals Mission,
Vision, Pre Event Promotions, Checklist, Venue, Vendor Management, Budgeting On The Day:
Promotion, Ticketing, Event Activities, Post-Event: Company – Customer Relationship, Follow-Up
Reports And Feedback
Module III: Event Planning and Proposal: Conceptualization, Research and Planning an event,
Pre-event planning and marketing, Role and Importance of Event proposal, Writing Event Proposal
Sponsorship, Event Budgeting
Module IV: Evaluation and Assessment: Market Research, Risk management, Negotiation
techniques, Communications: Reaching the Customer, Communication Mix, Developing and
Communicating a Positive Image, Evaluation and Impact Assessment, Evaluation Concepts,
Observation Techniques, Applications, Evaluation of Costs and Benefits
Course Code: MCBA309L: MEDIA RESEARCH: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module I: Introduction to Research: Definition, Meaning and Importance of Research,
Types and Approaches of Research, Defining a Research Problem, Writing a research proposal,
Literature Review
Module II: Research Process: Research Design and Research Questions, Various techniques of
sampling, Methods of data collection, Preparing questionnaires and schedules
Processing and analyzing data, Ethical Issues in Research
Module III: Media Research Methods: How media research is different,
Content Analysis, Textual and image analysis, Participatory and Non Participatory, observation
techniques, Focus Group and Longitudinal Study, Case Study method,
Historical and archival research, Ethnography
Module IV: Research Report Writing: Data analysis techniques, Basics of SPSS
ANOVA and Chi-Square test, Writing research report and conclusions, Abstract and References
Course Code: MCBA311L: MEDIA LAW: Credits: 03 (3-0-0) Module I: Freedom of speech
and expression: Constitutional Provisions
Module II: Right to Information Act: Important provisions, How to use RTI to get information
Module III: Defamation: Kinds of defamation, Legal provisions
Module IV: Contempt of Court: What constitutes contempt, Points to be kept in mind while
reporting legal issues
Module V: Broadcast Laws: Cable TV Regulation Act, Self-regulation, issues and legal
intervention
Module VI: Cinematograph Act: Legal provisions, Issues and Amendments
Module VII: Information Technology Act 2008: Main provisions and amendments,
Important cases
Course Code: MCBA313L: MEDIA TRENDS V: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA315H: MEDIA SKILLS V: Credits: 02 (0-0-4)
Practical work: Train students in digital journalism.
Course Code: MCBA317H: MINOR PROJECT (SPECIALISATION): Credits: 07 (0-0-8)
Practical work: Based on the media chosen by the students.
59

SIXTH SEMESTER
Course Code: MCBA302P: INTERNSHIP : Credits: 08
The student will be sent to intern in a media company for six to eight weeks.
Course Code: MCBA304L: THE BUSINESS OF MEDIA: Credits: 03 (3-0-0)
Module 1: Overview: Media as an industry, Major stakeholders of media firms, Understanding
demographics and psychographics of audience, Organisational culture and its impact on media firms
Unit II: Revenue and Expenditure: Revenue sources of traditional and digital media, Main
expenditure heads of traditional and digital media, Media Metrics and reach, Trends and opportunities
Unit III: Convergence and its impact: Effect of technology on media distribution and consumption,
Trends in ownership, media consolidation, mergers and acquisitions Challenges from emerging
media platforms, Impact of media globalization on Indian market
Course Code: MCBA306L: MEDIA TRENDS VI: Credits: 01 (1-0-0)
Module: Hold weekly lectures and discussion to apprise students of the latest trends in media.
Course Code: MCBA308P: DATA JOURNALISM: Credits: 04 (2-0-4) Module I:
Introduction to Data Journalism: Definition and historical perspective,
Scope: Why Data Journalism is important for a reporter, Skills required by a data journalist Module
II: Finding and Understanding Data: Where to look for data, Setting up data news wires, Strategic
searching - tips and tricks, Introduction to scraping, Turning numbers into stories,
Become Data Literate
Module III: Working with Data: Working with Excel, Cleaning data, Correcting bad formatting;
taking care of misspellings, Invalid values and duplicates
Module IV: Evaluating Data: Newsroom math and statistics, Making new variables with functions,
Summarizing data with pivot tables, Looking for patterns
Module V: Putting the Data Story Together: Deciding the central focus, Including data within a
narrative, Ethics of finding and using data, Data Visualisation
Course Code: MCBA312P: CAPSTONE PROJECT: Credits: 06
Practical work: Create a project that is of publishable or broadcast quality.
60

