Established Under the Bennett University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh Act,
2016’ (U.P. Act No. 24 of 2016),
FIRST STATUTES OF THE UNIVERSITY
Under clause 29 of the Aforesaid Act
Bennett University, Greater Noida

Statute Description
No.
1. Short Title, Scope and Commencement
2. Definitions
3. Seal, Flag, Anthem, Insignia etc. of the University
4. Objectives of the University
5. The Constitution, Powers and Functions of the Authorities of the University
6. The Officers of the University
7. Appointment, Powers and Functions of the Chancellor
8. Appointment, Powers and Functions of the Pro Chancellor
Appointment, Terms and Conditions, Powers and Functions of the Vice-
9.
Chancellor
10. Appointment, Terms and Conditions, and Functions of the Deans
11. Appointment, Terms and Conditions, and Functions of the Directors
12. Appointment, Terms and Conditions, Powers and Functions of the Registrar
13. Appointment, Terms and Conditions, and Functions of the Chief Finance Officer
Appointment Powers and Functions of such other Officers as may be declared
14.
by the Statutes to be Officers of the University
The Appointment of Teachers of the University and other Academic and
15.
Administrative Staff and their Emoluments
The Conditions of Service of Employees including Provisions for Retirement
16. Benefits, Insurance and Provident Fund, The Manner of Termination of Service
And Disciplinary Actions
The Procedure For Settlement Of Disputes Between Employees or Students
17.
and the University
2

The Procedure for Appeal to the Executive Council by any Employee or
18.
Students of the University
19. The Conferment of Honorary Degrees;and Academic Distinctions
The Withdrawal of Degree, Diploma, Certificate and Other Academic
20.
Distinctions
The Institution of Fellowships, Scholarships, Studentships, Medals and Prizes
21.
22. The Maintenance of Discipline Among The Students
The Establishment and Abolition of Department, Center’s and other
23.
constituents etc.
The Delegation of Powers Vested in the Authorities or Officers of the
24.
University
All other matters, which may be Prescribed By the Act.
(a) Provision Regarding fee to be charged from the Students
(b) Administration of Endowments
(c) Annual Report and the Balance Sheet
(d) Resignation
(e) Action Against Teachers and Non-Teaching staff including removal
25.
(f) Rules and Regulations
(g) Disputes as to Membership
(h) Validation of certain Acts and Decisions
(i) Elected Chairman to preside where no provision is made in the Statutes
(j) Disqualification
Statute 1: Short Title, Scope and Commencement
3

1. The "Statutes" means the Statutes of Bennett University, Greater Noida.
2. These Statutes shall come into force with effect from the date as prescribed in the
notification after approval by the Executive Council as per section 28 of the U.P. Act No
24 of 2016 notified by the Government of Uttar Pradesh.
3. The Statutes are to be read in conjunction with the provisions of the U.P. Act No 24 of
2016. In case of any specific provisions found to be missing in the Statutes, the
Ordinances, or the Rules etc. and/or if there be any difference in the provisions of the
U.P. Act No 24 of 2016 and the Ordinances or the Statutes, the provisions of the U.P. Act
No 24 of 2016 shall prevail.
4. The Statutes may be amended by the Executive Council of the University from time to
time, and the amended statutes, if any shall be applicable, with immediate or
retrospective or prospective effect, from such a date as prescribed in the notification.
5. The Executive Council however, shall not make, amend, repeal any Statutes affecting
the powers of any authority of the University until such authority has been given an
opportunity of expressing an opinion in writing on the proposed changes and any
opinion so expressed shall be considered by the Executive Council
Statute 2: Definitions
4

In these Statutes unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "A Regular Course of Study" means the courses of study running in the University as full
time or campus-based study;
2. "Act" means Uttar Pradesh Act (Adhiniyam) No24 2016;
3. “Academic Council” means the Academic Council of the University;
4. “Admission Committee “means the committee responsible to plan, organize and control
the admissions to various programs conducted by the University. When constituted, its
composition, powers and functions may be prescribed by the Executive Council and it
shall be an authority of the University in terms of clause 21 of the Act;
5. “Board” means the Board of Studies or the Planning Board, or any other Board of the
University;
6. "Branch of Courses of Study", means the area of the specialization of the study of any of
the programs of respective Schools;
7. “Chancellor”, “Pro-Chancellor”, “Vice-Chancellor” and “Pro-Vice-Chancellor” means
respectively the “Chancellor”, the “Pro-Chancellor” the “Vice-Chancellor” the “Pro-Vice-
Chancellor” of the University;
8. "Controller of Examination", means the person who has been put in charge to conduct
the examination(s);
9. “Course Coordinator” shall mean a faculty member who shall have full responsibility for
the course, coordinating the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course,
including setting up of course syllabus, timeline for conduct of various component of the
course, examinations and the award of grades. In case of any difficulty, the student is
expected to approach the Course Coordinator for advice and clarification;
10. The “Court” shall mean the Court of the University;
11. “Degree/Diploma” shall mean the; the Bachelor’s degree viz. B. Tech /Diploma and such
other degrees/Diploma of the University as may be approved by the Executive Council;
12. “Degree/Diploma Programs", means the Degree/Diploma Programs in the respective
branch/department of the respective School;
13. "Detained candidate", means the candidate who has taken admission in the University
as regular student but has not been permitted to appear in the examination due to
shortfall of attendance or any other reason;
14. “Department” means a Department of Studies and includes a Centre of Studies and
Research;
15. “Dean, Director/Principal” means the Head of an “Institution”, a College, Centre and a
School, or the person appointed for the purpose to act as such in his absence;
5

16. "Doctoral Programs", means the Doctorate/Research Programs in the respective
branches/departments of the respective School.
17. "Duration of Program", means the whole tenure of the particular program (grace period
of the program is not included in the tenure).
18. “Employee” means any person duly appointed through engagement letter etc. by the
University, and includes a teacher or any other member of the staff of the University;
19. “Executive Council” means the Executive Council of the University;
20. "Examination Hall", means the examination place, room, location, where students have
to appear for the respective examination;
21. "Examination Pattern", means the system of the examination being followed by the
University;
22. "External Examiner", means the examiner from other University/Institution;
23. “Faculty” means a Faculty of the University;
24. "Fee" means the collection made by the University from the students, by whatever
name it may be called;
25. “Hostel” means scholar/students Hostel of the University;
26. "Internal Examiner", means the examiner from a teaching department of the University;
27. "Invigilator", means the teacher or person who has been assigned duty in the particular
examination hall;
28. “Institution/College” means a college including existing college or an Institution
established or maintained by or associated or constituent to the University in
accordance with the Act, Ordinance and the-Statutes of the University;
29. Management: shall mean the Court, the Executive Council or any authority or officer of
the University, designated by the Court, Executive Council, Chancellor, Byelaws, and
Ordinances and Statutes of the University, to exercise powers over specified functions.
30. "Ordinance" means the First Ordinances 2016 of Bennett University, Greater Noida,
made under Uttar Pradesh Act No 24, 2016;
31. "Post Graduate Programs", mean the Master's Degree Programs in the respective
branch/department of the respective School,
32. “Prescribed” means prescribed by the Statutes;
33. “Programs of Study” means the Academic Programs offered by the University leading to
award of degrees/diplomas/certificates as per the conditions so prescribed for each
Program;
34. “Records and Publication” means the records and publication of the University;
6

35. “Registrar”, “Deputy Registrar”, “Chief Finance Officer”, “Controller of Examinations”,
“Librarian” or, “Chief Proctor” means respectively the Registrar, the Deputy Registrar,
the Finance Officer, the Controller of Examination, the Librarian or the Chief Proctor of
the University;
36. “Regular Student”, means the student who is studying in full time program running in
the University in the respective academic year, and seeks permission for appearing in
examination of the University as such;
37. "Regulation" means the regulation made under the provisions of the Act;
38. “Regulatory Body” means statutory bodies established by the central government from
time to time such as University Grants Commission, and includes All India Council of
Technical Education, Bar Council of India, the Distance Education Council, Dental Council
of India, the Nursing Council, the Medical Council of India, the National Council of
Teacher Education, Central Council of Indian Medicine, Pharmacy Council of India or any
other statutory body as the case may be;
39. “School” means School of Engineering and Applied Sciences , School of Management ,
School of Media and Liberal Arts, School of Law , School of Design and School of Public
policy or any other such school opened and so named by the University;
40. “School of Engineering & Applies Sciences” means the School of the University offering
the programs of study on the areas of Engineering, Technology, Applied Sciences AND
allied subjects;
41. “School of Management” means the school of the University offering the programs of
study on the areas of management and its allied subjects;
42. ‘Sponsoring Body” means Bennett Institute of Higher Education (BIHE), (a not for profit
company) registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013;
43. “Statutes” and “Ordinances” means respectively, the Statutes and the Ordinances of
the University for the time being in force;
44. “Student” means a student enrolled in the register of the University;
45. “Teacher of the University” means Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professor,
and such other persons as may be appointed for imparting education/instructions, or
conducting research in the University and are designated as teachers by the Ordinances;
46. “University” means the Bennett University, Greater Noida, established under section 3
of the Act;
47. "University Grants Commission" or “UGC” means the University Grants Commission
established under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956;
48. "University Grants Commission Regulation 2010" or “UGC Regulation 2010” means the
University Grants Commission (Establishment of and maintenance of Standards in
7

University) Regulation 2010 made under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 as
amended from time to time;
49. "Undergraduate Programs", means the Bachelor's Degree programs in the respective
branch/department of the respective School;
50. "Words and Expressions" used but not defined in these Ordinances shall have the same
meaning as assigned to them in the Act;
51. 'He' & 'His' where ever they figure in the ordinances shall imply 'he'/'she' and 'his'/'her'
respectively.
Statute 3: Seal, Flag, Anthem, Insignia etc. of the University
8

1. The University shall have a common seal to be used for the purposes of the University
and the design of the seal shall be as approved by the Executive Council, subject to
further changes or amendments, as deemed necessary from time to time.
2. The University may decide to make and use such Flag, Anthem, Insignia, Vehicle Flag
and other symbolic or graphic expression, abbreviations or likewise, for such purposes
as deemed necessary from time to time, and which are not of such nature that are not
permitted by the State or the Central Government.
Statute 4: Objects of the University
9

Apart from the Objectives defined in Clause 6 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016, the University shall
also have following additional objective:
“To collaborate with other Universities, Research Institutions, Government and Non-
Government Organizations and Foreign Institutions for fulfilment of the objectives of the
University as defined in the Act”
Statute 5: The Constitution, Powers and Functions of Authorities of the
University
10

1. Under Clause 21 of the U.P. Act No 24 of 2016, all or any of the following shall be
authorities of the University: -
(a) the Court,
(b) the Executive Council,
(c) the Academic Council,
(d) the Finance Committee,
(e) the Planning Board,
(f) the Boards of Studies,
(g) the Admissions Committee,
(h) the Examination Committee and
(i) such other authorities as may be declared by the Statutes to be authorities of
the University
2. The Court, under Clause 22 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016:
The Court shall consist of following:
(a) The Chancellor - Ex-Officio (Chairman)
(b) The Pro-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(c) The Vice-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(d) Two members from industry/corporate nominated by the Sponsoring Body.
(e) Two eminent educationists to be nominated by the Chancellor.
(f) Two members from Industry/ Corporate to be nominated by the Chancellor
(g) Deans of the Schools - Ex-Officio
(h) Registrar - Ex-Officio Non-Member Secretary.
2.1 The Chancellor shall be the Ex-Officio Chairman of the Court.
2.2 The term of office of ex-officio members shall continue so long as they hold the office by
virtue of which they are members. The term of office of nominated members under
clauses, 2 (d) to 2(f) of Statute No 5, shall be two years from the 1st day of January of
the year in which they are nominated. The term of office of a member nominated to fill
a casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder period of the term of the member in
whose place he has been nominated. Members nominated as above can be re-
nominated. The Chancellor has the right to review and modify the composition of the Court at
any time. The Court primarily is an advisory body but shall have the following general
power and functions, namely: -
11

(a) to review from time to time, the broad policies and programs of the University
and suggest measures for the working, improvement and development of the
University;
(b) to consider and pass resolutions on the Annual Report and Annual Accounts of
the University and Audit Report of such accounts;
(c) to advise the Chancellor in respect of any matter which may be referred to it for
advice;
(d) to perform such other functions as may be prescribed.
2.3 The Court shall meet as often as may be necessary but not less than once during a
calendar year.
2.4 Seven members including the Chairman shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Court.
Attendance of one amongst the Chancellor, Pro Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor is
necessary. In absence of all of these three officers of the University, the meeting shall
not be held.
2.5 Meetings of the Court shall be convened by the Chairman either on his own initiative or
at the request of the Vice Chancellor or on a requisition signed by not less than four
members of the Court.
2.6 All questions considered in the meetings of the Court shall be decided by majority votes
of the members present and voting including the Chairman. If the votes be equally
divided, the Chairman shall have a second or casting vote.
2.7 The Chancellor, if present, shall preside at every meeting of the Court. In his absence,
the Chancellor may nominate Pro Chancellor or a member of the Court or the members
present shall elect one from amongst themselves to preside at the meeting.
2.8 A written notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every member at
least two weeks before the date of the meeting.
2.9 Provided that the Chairman may call a special meeting of the Court at short notice to
consider urgent issues.
2.10 The notice may be delivered either by hand or e-mail or sent by registered post at the
address of each member as recorded in the office of the Court and if so sent, shall be
deemed to be duly delivered at the time at which notice would be delivered in the
ordinary course of post.
2.11 Agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to the members at least 10 days before the
meeting.
12

2.12 Notices of motions for inclusion of any item on the agenda must reach the Registrar at
least ten days before the meeting. The Chairman may, however, permit inclusion of any
item for which due notice has not been received.
2.13 The ruling of the Chairman in regard to all the questions of procedure shall be final.
2.14 The minutes of the proceedings of the Court shall be drawn up by the Registrar with the
approval of the Chairman and circulated to all members of the Court. The minutes along
with amendments, if any suggested, shall be placed for confirmation at the next
meeting of the Court. After the minutes are confirmed and signed by the Chairman, they
shall be recorded in a minute book which shall be kept open for inspection of the
members of the Court.
2.15 If a member of the Court fails to attend three consecutive meetings without leave of
absence, he shall cease to be a member of the Court, unless the Chairman desires
otherwise.
2.16 All orders and decisions of the Court shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Registrar or any other person authorised by the Court in its behalf.
2.17 The minutes of the Executive Council shall be reported in meeting of the Court.
3. The Executive Council under Clause 23 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016
3.1 The Executive Council shall be the principal executive body of the University as per
section 23 of the U.P. Act No 24 of 2016.
3.2 The following shall be the constitution of the Executive Council:
(a) The Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(b) The Pro-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(c) The Vice-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(d) The Pro Vice-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(e) One officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary from the Higher Education
Department to be nominated by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh.
(f) Deans and Directors and two professors (who are not Deans/Directors by
seniority and by rotation) duly nominated by the Vice –Chancellor.(Ex officio)
(g) Two members from corporate/industry nominated by the Sponsoring Body
(h) Two eminent educationists as nominees of the Chancellor
(i) Two eminent Industrialist /Corporate members nominated by the Chancellor.
(j) Chief Finance Officer of the University - Non Member Special Invitee.(Ex officio)
(k) Registrar - Ex-Officio Non-Member Secretary
13

3.3 The Chancellor shall be the Ex-Officio Chairman of the Executive Council.
3.4 The term of office of an ex-officio member shall continue so long as he holds the office
by virtue of which he is a member.
3.5 The term of office of a nominated member under clauses 3.2 (g),(h) and (i) of the above
statute, shall be two years from the 1st day of January of the year in which he is
nominated. The term of office of a member nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall
continue for the remainder period of the term of the member in whose place he has
been nominated.
3.6 The Chancellor has the right to review and modify the composition of the Executive Council at
any time.
3.7 The procedure for the meetings of the Executive Council shall be as follows:
(a) Eight members including the Chairman shall form a quorum for a meeting of the
Executive Council. Attendance of one amongst the Chancellor, Pro Chancellor or
Vice-Chancellor is necessary. In absence of all of these three officers of the
University, the meeting shall not be held.
(b) The Executive Council shall meet as often as may be necessary but not less than
four times during a calendar year. Meetings of the Executive Council shall be
convened by the Chairman either on his own initiative or at the request of the
Vice Chancellor or on a requisition signed by not less than four members of the
Executive Council.
(c) The Chancellor, if present, shall preside at every meeting of the Executive
Council. In his absence, the Pro-Chancellor shall preside at the meeting. In the
absence of both, Vice Chancellor shall preside at the meeting.
(d) A written notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every member
at least two weeks before the date of the meeting. The notice shall state the
place, the date and time of the meeting; provided that the Chairman may call a
special meeting of the Executive Council at short notice to consider urgent/
special matters.
(e) The notice may be delivered either by email or hand or sent by registered post at
the address of each member as recorded in the office of the Executive Council
and if so sent, shall be deemed to be duly delivered at the time at which notice
would be delivered in the ordinary course of post.
(f) Agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to the members at least one week
before the meeting.
(g) Notices of motions for inclusion of any item on the agenda must reach the
Registrar at least 10 days before the meeting. The Chairman may, however,
permit inclusion of any item for which due notice has not been received.
(h) All questions considered at the meetings of the Executive Council shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting including
the Chairman. If the votes be equally divided, the Chairman shall have a second
or casting vote.
(i) The ruling of the Chairman in regard to all questions of procedure shall be final.
14

(j) The minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of the Executive Council shall be
drawn up by the Registrar with the approval of the Chairman and circulated to all
members of the Executive Council. The minutes along with amendments, if any
suggested, shall be placed for confirmation at the next meeting of the Executive
Council. After the minutes are confirmed and signed by the Chairman, they shall
be recorded in a minute book which shall be kept open for inspection of the
members of the Executive Council at any time during the office hours.
(k) If a member of the Executive Council fails to attend three consecutive meetings
without leave of absence, he shall cease to be a member of the Executive
Council, unless the Chairman desires otherwise
(l) The Executive Council may delegate such of its powers to the Chancellor, Pro-
Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor, as it may deem appropriate. However, the
decisions taken under delegated powers shall be reported to the Executive
Council in its next meeting.
(m) In emergent cases, the Chairman, Executive Council may exercise the powers of the
Executive Council. (Inserted under resolution of 4th Meeting of Executive Council)
(n) Further, in case of Chairman, exercising any of the powers on the Executive council, the
members shall be informed through email, post facto, and the decision put up in next
meeting of the Executive Council for ratification. (Inserted under resolution of 4th
Meeting of Executive Council)
3.8 Powers and Functions of Executive Council:
The Executive Council shall have the power of management and administration of the
revenues and property of the University and the conduct of all administrative affairs of
the University, not otherwise provided for in the Act. It shall have following powers
namely
(a) to approve the annual report, annual accounts and financial estimates of the
University,
To create, add, close the Schools/Centres/Department at any time under the
(b)
relevant provisions of the Act
(c) to create teaching and other academic posts including Chairs and to ratify the
appointments such as Professors, Associate/Assistant Professors, and other
members of the teaching/non-teaching staff as may be necessary, on the
recommendations of the selection committees constituted for the purpose,
(d) to fix the emoluments and define the duties and functions and conditions of
service of Professors, Associate/Assistant Professors, and other members of the
teaching/ non-teaching staff,
15

(e) provide for the appointment of Visiting Professors, Emeritus Professors,
Consultants and Scholars and determine the terms and conditions of such
appointments,
(f) to approve administrative, ministerial and other necessary posts and to make
appointment there to,
(g) to promote inter- facial research by making joint appointments of teaching staff
in different Schools, Department and Centres,
(h) to accept on behalf of the University any other Sponsoring Body, bequest,
donation or transfer of any movable or immovable property to the University,
To manage and regulate the finances, accounts, investments, property, business
(i)
and all other administrative affairs of the University and for that purpose to
appoint such agents as it may think fit,
to invest any money belonging to the University, including any unapplied
(j)
income, in such stocks, funds, share or securities, from time to time, as it may
think fit or in the purchase of immovable property in India, which the like powers
of varying such investment from time to time,
(k) To approve fees, or other charges like registration fee and caution money, hostel
charges etc. to be paid by students and modify the same from time to time on
the recommendations of the Finance Committee;
(l) to fix limits on the total recurring and the total non-recurring expenditure for a
year on the recommendation of the Finance Committee,
(m) to provide for the building, premises, furniture, apparatus and other means
needed for carrying on the work of the University. to transfer or accept transfers
of any movable or immovable property on behalf of the University,
(n) approve entering into, vary, carry out and cancel contracts on behalf of the
University and to make such regulations as may be required towards this
objective,
(o) to entertain, adjudicate upon, and if it thinks fit, to redress, any grievances of
the salaried officers, the teaching staff and other employees of the University
who may of any reason feel aggrieved,
(p) Approve such programs and of such minimum duration on its own volition or on
the recommendation of Academic Council, introduce, modify or discontinue a
program;
(q) Approve the procedure for admission to various academic programs including
minimum entry qualification;
16

(r) approve the Regulations governing the conduct of various programs;
(s) approve the costumes to be worn by participants in the Convocation;
(t) laydown and modify the charges for the issuance of academic documents or
certificates to the students;
(u) to approve rules/regulations to govern the appointment of examiners and
moderators and, if necessary, to remove them, and to fix their fees, emoluments
and travelling and other allowances after consulting the Academic Council,
(v) to select a common seal for the University and provide for the custody and use
of the seal,
(w) to frame rules for institution and grant of University fellowships, Assistantship,
studentships, medals and prizes,
(x) to regulate and enforce discipline among employees and students in accordance
with the Statutes and the Ordinances,
(y) to enter into partnership with industry, government and non-government
agencies for the advancement of knowledge and if desired establish a corpus of
funds out of the profits of such partnership; and
(z) to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
conferred or imposed on it by the Act or the Statutes.
(aa) The Executive Council may delegate such of its powers to the Vice-Chancellor,
the Registrar or such other officer of the University or to Committee appointed
by it as it may deem fit for performing certain specified functions for a specified
duration.
(bb) Provided that the Executive Council shall not make any Statutes or any
amendment of a Statute affecting the status, powers or constitution of any
existing authority of the University until such authority has been given an
opportunity of expressing an opinion on the proposal, and any opinion so
expressed shall be in writing and shall be considered by the Executive Council;
Provided further that no Statute shall be made by the Executive Council affecting
the discipline of students, and standards of instruction, education and
examination except after consultation with the Academic Council.
4. Academic Council under Clause 24 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016
4.1 The Academic Council, shall be the principal academic body of the University and shall
subject to the provisions of the Statutes and the Ordinances, exercise general
supervision over the academic policies of the University and to give directions regarding
methods of instruction, co-ordination of teaching among the schools, departments and
canters, research and improvement of academic standards;
17

4.2. Its shall aim to bring about and promote inter-School /centre co- ordination and to
establish or appoint such committees or boards as may be deemed necessary for the
purpose;
4.3. It shall consider matters of general academic interest either on its own initiative, or on a
reference by a School, Centre, Department or the Executive Council, and to take
appropriate action thereon; and to take appropriate action thereon; and
4.4. It shall frame such regulations and rules consistent with the Statutes and the Ordinances
regarding the academic functioning of the University, discipline, residence, admissions,
award of fellowships and studentships, fees, concessions, and attendance.
4.5. The Academic Council shall consist of the following members, namely-
(a) The Vice Chancellor -Chairman (Ex-Officio)
(b) All Deans of Schools -Members (Ex-Officio)
(c) All Directors of Centres -Members (Ex-Officio)
(d) All Head of Departments -Members (Ex-Officio)
(e) Two Professors, Associate and Assistant -Members
Professors each, other than Heads of
Departments by rotation.
(f) Two distinguished academicians to be -Members
nominated by the Chancellor for
their special knowledge in educational
progress and development.
(g) Two Industry professionals to be -Members
nominated by the Chancellor
(h) Librarian -Member (Ex-Officio)
(i) The Registrar -Member Secretary (Ex-Officio)
4.6. The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Academic Council. The term
of office of ex-officio members shall continue so long as they hold the office by virtue of
which they are members. All members of the Academic Council, other than the ex-
officio members, shall hold office for a term of three years from the 1st day of January
of the year in which nominated. The term of the office of a member nominated to fill a
casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder period of the term of the member in
whose place he has been nominated. The Vice Chancellor has right to review and modify the
composition of the Academic Council at any time.
18

4.7 The Vice Chancellor shall preside over the meetings of the Academic Council and in his
absence a member nominated by the Vice-Chancellor shall preside over the meeting.
The procedure for the meetings of the Academic Council shall be as following:
(a) The Academic Council shall meet as often as may be necessary but not less than
two times during an academic year. Meetings of the Academic Council shall be
convened by the Chairman either on his own initiative or on a requisition signed
by not less than 20% of the Academic Council members.
(b) A written notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every member
at least two weeks before the date of the meeting; provided that the Chairman
may call a special meeting of the Academic Council at short notice to consider
urgent matters.
(c) Agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to the members at least three days
before the meeting.
(d) Fifty (50) % members of the Academic Council including the Chairman shall form
a quorum for a meeting of the Academic Council.
(e) All questions considered at the meetings of the Academic Council shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting including
the Chairman. If the votes be equally divided, the Chairman shall have a second
or casting vote.
4.8 In emergent cases, the Chairman, Academic Council may exercise the powers of the
Academic Council. Further, in case of Chairman, exercising any of the powers on the
Academic Council, the members shall be informed through email, post facto, and the
decision put up in next meeting of the Academic Council for ratification. (Inserted under
resolution of 4th Meeting of Executive Council)
4.9. The minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of the Academic Council shall be drawn up
by the Registrar with the approval of the Chairman and circulated to all members of the
Academic Council. The minutes along with amendments, if any suggested, shall be
placed for confirmation at the next meeting of the Academic Council. After the minutes
are confirmed and signed by the Chairman, they shall be recorded in a minute book
which shall be kept open for inspection of the members of the Academic Council at any
time during the office hours.
4.10. Powers and Duties of the Academic Council: Subject to the provisions under Section 24
of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016 and the Statutes, the Academic Council shall, in addition to all
other powers vested in it, have the following powers duties and functions, namely-
(a) to report on any matter referred to it by the Chancellor or Court or Executive
Council, as the case may be;
19

(b) to make proposals to the Management for the establishment of Departments,
Special Centres, Specialized Laboratories Libraries and museums;
(c) frame and revise curricula and syllabi for the courses of studies for the various
Departments/Academic Centres;
(d) to consider proposals submitted by Board of Studies of the Departments of the
University;
(e) to promote research within the University and to requisition from time to time
reports on such research;
(f) to make recommendations to the Management with regard to the creation and
abolition of teaching posts and the duties attached thereto;
(g) to recommend to the Executive Council the recognition of degrees and diplomas
of other Universities and institutions and to determine their equivalent degree
and diplomas of the University;
(h) to recommend appointment of committees for admission to the University;
(i) appoint Advisory Committees or Expert Committees or both for the Departments
and the Academic Centres of the University to make recommendation on
academic matters connected with the working of the Department/Academic
Centre. The Head of the Department concerned shall act as convenor of such
Committees;
(j) appoint Committees from amongst the members of the Academic Council, other
teachers of the University and experts from outside to advise on such specific
academic matters as may be referred to any such Committee by the Academic
Council; consider the recommendations of the Advisory Committee attached to
various Departments and Academic Centres and that of Expert and other
committees and take such action (including the making of recommendations to
the Executive Council ) as circumstances of each may require;
(k) make periodical review of the activities of the Departments and take appropriate
action (including the making of recommendations to Management.
(l) supervise the working of the Library;
(m) to publish lists of prescribed or recommended text books and to publish the
syllabi of prescribed courses of study;
(n) to make such arrangements for the instruction and examination of persons, not
being members of the University as may be necessary;
(o) to recommend to the Management the draft Ordinances regarding examinations
of the University and the conditions on which student should be admitted to
such examinations;
20

(p) to make recommendation to the Management in regard to the appointment of
examiners and, if necessary, their removal and the fixation of their fees,
emoluments and travelling and other expenses;
(q) to make recommendations for the conferment of honorary degrees and to
confer degrees, academic distinction, honours, diplomas, licenses, title and
marks of honour;
(r) to make proposals to the Management for the institutions of fellowships,
Assistantship, scholarships, studentships medals and prizes and to award the
same;
(s) provide for the inspection of the classes and the Halls of Residence/Hostels in
respect of the instructions and discipline there in, supervise the co-curricular
activities of the students of the Institute and submit reports thereon to the
Management;
(t) to promote the health and welfare of students and frame rules/constitute
committees consisting of such number of teachers and students as may be
necessary to advise the Academic Council on matters relating to the welfare of
the students.
(u) to perform, in relation to academic matters, all such duties and to do all such
acts as may be necessary for the proper carrying out of the provisions of the U.P.
Act No 24 of 2016, these Statutes and Ordinances;
(v) the minutes of every meeting of the Academic Council shall be reported to the
Executive Council.
5. The Finance Committee under Clause 25 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016:
5.1 The Finance Committee shall be the principal financial body of the University within the
meaning of Section 25 of the UP Act 24 of 2016, to take care of the financial matters. It
shall consist of the following:
(a) The Vice-Chancellor - Ex-Officio
(b) The Deans of all Schools - Ex-Officio
(c) Two nominees of Sponsoring Body - Members
(d) The Chief Finance Officer - Ex-Officio Non-Member Secretary
5.2. The Vice-Chancellor shall be the Ex-Officio Chairman of the Finance Committee.
5.3. (a) The term of office of ex-officio members shall continue so long they hold the
office by virtue of which they are members.
(b) The term of office of a nominated member under the Statute shall be two years
from the 1st day of January of the year in which he is nominated. The term of
21

office of a member nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall continue for the
remainder period of the term of the member in whose place he has been
nominated.
5.4. The Finance Committee shall meet at least twice every year to examine accounts and
scrutinize proposals for expenditure provided that a period not exceeding 180 days shall
elapse between two consecutive meetings.
5.5. Three members of the Finance Committee including the chairman and minimum one
nominee of the sponsoring body shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Finance
Committee. It is essential that nominee of the Sponsoring body is in agreement with all
financial recommendations of the Finance committee. Any financial decision taken
without his/their written consent will be treated as null and void.
5.6 The provisions regarding notices of the meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and
confirmation of the minutes applicable to the meetings of the Executive Council shall, so
far as may be, shall be applicable in connection with the meetings of the Finance
Committee.
5.7. The Vice Chancellor, if present shall preside at the meeting of the Finance Committee. In
his absence the members present shall elect one from amongst themselves to preside
at the meeting.
5.8 The Finance Committee shall have the following powers and functions:
(a) Examine and scrutinize the annual budget of the University. The Finance
Committee shall recommend limits for the total recurring expenditure and the
total non-recurring expenditure for the year, based on the income and resources
of the University and send its recommendation to the Executive Council.
(b) Give its views and make its recommendations to the Executive Council, either on
the initiative of the Executive Council or the Vice Chancellor or on its own
initiative of any financial question affecting the University.
(c) The annual accounts and financial estimates of the University prepared by the
Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance Committee for consideration and
comments and thereafter submitted to the Executive Council for approval with
or without amendments.
(d) Consider and make its recommendations to the Executive Council on all such
matters connected with the University, which have financial implications.
(e) A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Finance Committee shall be sent
to the Executive Council.
5.9. In emergent cases, the Chairman may exercise the powers of the Finance Committee
and report the action taken by him in the next meeting of the Finance Committee for its
approval.
22

6. The Planning Board under Section 26 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016
6.1. The Planning Board shall be the Principal planning body of the University. The Board
shall ensure that the infrastructure and academic support system meets the norms of
the University Grants Commission or the respective statutory councils and shall be an
authority of the University within the meaning of Section 21 of the UP Act No 24 of
2016. It shall consist of the following:
(a) The Vice-Chancellor -Ex-Officio
(b) The Deans/Director(s) -Ex-Officio
(c) I/C Estate and Works and one more -Ex Officio
nominee of the Sponsoring Body
(f) One or Two Project/University Engineers -Ex-Officio
nominated by the Executive Council
(g) The Chief Finance Officer -Ex-Officio
(h) The Registrar -Ex-Officio -Member Secretary
6.2. The Vice-Chancellor shall be the Ex-Officio Chairman of the Planning Board.
6.3. (a) The term of office of an ex-officio member shall continue so long as he holds the
office by virtue of which he is a member.
(b) The term of office of nominated members shall be two years from the 1st day of
January of the year in which he is nominated. The term of office of a member
nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder period of the
term of the member in whose place he has been nominated.
6.4. The Planning Board shall meet as often as is necessary, but not less than twice a year.
6.5. Fifty (50)% members including the chairman shall form a quorum for a meeting of the
Planning Board.
6.6. The provisions regarding notices of meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and
confirmation of the minutes applicable to the meetings of the Executive Council shall, so
far as may be, shall be applicable in connection with the meetings of the Planning Board.
6.7. The Planning Board shall have the following powers and functions:
(a) It shall be responsible, under the direction of the Executive Council, for
planning and construction of all major infrastructure, academic support system
and capital works. The budget for such tasks shall be projected to the Finance
committee for its consideration and recommendations. Based on the
recommendation of the Finance Committee, necessary administrative approval
for the expenditure shall be accorded by the Executive Council.
23

(b) It shall have the power to give the necessary administrative approval and
expenditure sanction for minor works and works pertaining to maintenance
and repairs, within the expenditure limit approved by the Executive Council and
within the allocated budget.
(c) It shall cause to be prepared estimates of cost of buildings and other capital
works, minor works, repairs, maintenance and the like, using the standard
practices.
(d) It shall be responsible for making technical scrutiny of work proposed, as may
be considered necessary by it.
(e) It shall be responsible for enlistment of suitable contractors and acceptance of
tenders and shall have the power to give direction for the University works
where necessary;
(f) It shall have the powers to settle rates not covered by tender and settle claims
and disputes with contractors.
6.8. In emergent cases, the Chairman of the Planning Board may exercise the powers of the
Planning Board. Such cases shall be reported in the Planning Board at its next meeting.
6.9. A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Planning Board shall be reported to the
Executive Council.
7. The Boards of Studies
7.1. The Board of Studies in respective Departments shall have such composition and
perform duties as laid down in the Ordinances of the University.
7.2. The functioning and procedures of Board of studies shall be as laid down in the
ordinances of the University.
8. Selection/Promotion Committees
8.1 There shall be Selection Committees for making recommendations to the Executive
Council for appointment to the post of Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant
Professor, Registrar, Chief Finance Officer, Controller of Examinations, Librarian and
other members of the staff etc.
8.2 The Selection Committee shall be constituted as per the extant UGC regulations on the
subject and shall comprise.
(a) Vice Chancellor - Chairman
(b) Dean (of respective school)/Director of the respective centre.
(c) Head of respective Departments (if professor).
(d) Dir, HR Department.
(e) Subject Expert(s) as decided by the Vice Chancellor
8.3 The Vice-Chancellor, shall convene and preside at the meeting of the Selection/
Promotion Committee:
24

8.4 If the Executive Council is unable to accept the recommendations made by the
Selection/Promotion Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the
Chancellor for final orders.
8.5 An authority of the University may appoint as many standing or special Committees as it
may deem fit, and may appoint to such committees, persons who are not members of
such authority.
25

Statute 6: Officers of the University
Under Section 10 of U.P. Act No 24 of 2016, all or any of the following shall be the officers of
the University. The University may appoint all or any of the officers, under the list below.
1. the Chancellor,
2. the Pro-Chancellor,
3. the Vice-Chancellor,
4. Pro Vice-Chancellor
5. the Dean/Director,
6. the Director, Human Resource (Dir, HR),
7. the Registrar,
8. the Dean of Students Affairs,
9. the Controller of Examinations,
10. the Chief Finance Officer,
11. The President
12. Such other officers as may be declared by the Statutes to be officers of the University.
26

Statute 7: Appointment, Powers and Functions of Chancellor
1. The Chancellor shall be appointed by the Management Committee of the Sponsoring
Body for a period of three years. On the expiry of his term, the Chancellor shall be
eligible for reappointment. The proposal for reappointment of the Chancellor, if any,
shall be considered by the Managing Committee of the Sponsoring Body, at least three
months before the expiry of the term, and if approved, the Chancellor shall be
reappointed for an additional period of three years or a shorter period as appropriate.
2. The Chancellor may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Chairman Sponsoring
Body resign his office with a notice of three months. Further, the Management
Committee of the Sponsoring Body shall have power to remove the Chancellor by giving
a notice of three months.
3. The Chancellor shall by virtue of his office, be the Head of the University and shall
constitute interim Executive Council. The Chancellor shall exercise general control over
the affairs of the University
4. The Chancellor shall preside over the meeting of the Court, the Executive Council, and
convocation of the University, conferring degrees, diplomas or other academic
distinctions.
5. The Chancellor shall, in addition to the powers vested in him as chairman of the Court,
the Executive council and roles assigned under the Act, have the following additional
powers, namely:-
(a) To appoint and remove the Vice Chancellor; in the overall interest of the
University with prior approval of the Sponsoring Body. The Chancellor shall
ensure compliance to the requirements of Statute 9 for the Vice Chancellor
before removal of the Vice Chancellor. In case of resignation or termination of
the Vice-Chancellor, the Chancellor shall nominate a Senior Dean as officiating
Vice-Chancellor till such time new incumbent is put in place.
(b) The Chancellor may appoint the first Vice Chancellor of the University without
calling for proposal by the search committee as outlined in Statute 9.
(c) The Chancellor may confirm, modify or reverse any decision taken by the Vice
Chancellor in relation to any grievance of employees or students.
(d) The Chancellor may appoint the first Registrar of the University duly waiving the
procedure outlined for selection in Statutes 12.
(e) To call for any information or record;
(f) Such other powers as may be conferred by the Statutes.
6. In case of an emergency like illness, absence or death of the Chancellor, the Pro-
Chancellor or in his absence, the Vice-Chancellor shall perform the duties of the
Chancellor till the Chancellor reassumes his office or a new Chancellor is appointed as
the case may be. However, such a period will normally not exceed six months.
27

Statute 8: Appointment, Powers and Functions of Pro Chancellor
1. The Pro-Chancellor, shall be appointed by the Management Committee of the
Sponsoring Body for a period of three years.
2. The Pro Chancellor shall assist the Chancellor in discharging his duties and perform the
same duties as chancellor and preside at the convocation in absence of the Chancellor.
3. The Pro Chancellor may in writing under his hand addressed to the Chancellor resign his
office.
28

Statute 9: Appointment Powers and Functions of Vice Chancellor
1. The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor, for a period of three years in
accordance with the provisions of section 13(1) of the UP Act No 24 of 2016. For same, a
three-member search committee shall be appointed by the Chancellor, having following
composition:
(a) A nominee of the Sponsoring Body.
(b) Two eminent academicians, not being connected with University, one of which
shall be the Vice Chancellor of any University.
2. The Search Committee for the post of Vice Chancellor shall recommend a panel of three
to five names to the Chancellor within such period as the Chancellor may stipulate while
appointing the Search Committee.
3. The Chancellor shall select one amongst the recommended name for the position of the
Vice Chancellor.
4. The Chancellor may appoint the first Vice Chancellor of the University without calling for
proposal by the Search Committee.
5. On the expiry of his term, the Vice-Chancellor shall be eligible for reappointment. The
proposal for reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor, if any, shall be considered by the
Chancellor at least three months before the expiry of the term, and if approved by the
Sponsoring Body, the Chancellor shall reappoint the Vice-Chancellor for an additional
period of three years or a shorter period as appropriate.
6. The Vice Chancellor shall be a whole time salaried officer of the University; the salary
and allowances and other conditions of services of the Vice-Chancellor at the time of
appointment shall be such as decided by the Sponsoring Body and as amended from
time to time.
7. Power and Function of the Vice Chancellor
The Vice-Chancellor shall be the principal executive and academic officer of the
University and shall be the Chairman of the Academic Council, Finance Committee and
Planning Board of the University. He shall exercise general supervision and control over
the affairs of the University and give effect to the decisions of the Court and Executive
Council of the University, in letter and spirit and shall ensure that they are not
contradictory in nature and practice. The Vice Chancellor shall have the following
additional powers and functions:
29

(a) The Vice Chancellor shall be entitled to be present at and to address any meeting
of any other authority or any other body of the University;
(b) It shall be the duty of the Vice Chancellor to see that the provisions of the U.P.
Act No 24 of 2016, the Statutes and the Ordinances of the University are duly
observed and he shall have all powers necessary to ensure such observance;
(c) The Vice Chancellor shall have all the powers necessary for the proper
maintenance of discipline in the University and he may delegate any such powers
to such person or persons as he may deem fit;
(d) The Vice Chancellor shall be empowered to grant leave to any officer of the
University and make necessary arrangements for the discharge of the functions
of such an officer during the period of his absence;
(e) The Vice Chancellor shall grant leave of absence to any employee of the
University in the prescribed manner and if he so decides delegate such powers to
any other officer or officers of the University;
(f) The Vice Chancellor shall have the power to convene or cause to be convened
meetings of the various bodies/committees of the University;
(g) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions the Vice – Chancellor shall
have the powers to make short-term appointments for a period one year, of
such persons as may be considered necessary for functioning of the University;
(h) The Vice-Chancellor shall cause the budget to be made by the Finance
Committee and put before the Executive Council for consideration and approval;
(i) The Vice-Chancellor may, if he is of the opinion that immediate action is
necessary on any matter, exercise any power conferred on any authority of the
University by or under the Act and shall convey to such authority the action
taken by him on such matters However, such acts should be informed to the
Chancellor immediately without any delay;
(j) Provided that if the authority of the University or any person in the service of the
University who is aggrieved by the action taken by the Vice-Chancellor under this
sub-section may prefer an appeal to the Chancellor within one month from the
date of communication of such decision. The Chancellor may confirm, modify or
reverse such action taken by the Vice Chancellor,
(k) The Vice Chancellor shall have the powers to enter into agreements on behalf of
the University as approved by the respective and relevant Committees or as
approved by the Chancellor;
(l) The Vice-Chancellor may delegate any of his powers to other officers of the
University in consultation with the Chancellor.
30

8. During the temporary absence of the Vice-Chancellor by reason of leave, illness or any
other cause, the Chancellor may make such arrangements as he deems fit for carrying
on the duties of the Vice-Chancellor:
9. The Vice-Chancellor may by writing addressed to the Chancellor, resign his office by
giving a notice of six months. The services of the Vice Chancellor can be terminated by
the Chancellor by giving him a three months’ notice or three months’ salary in lieu of
notice, without assigning any reason. In case there is material development to
terminate the services of the Vice-Chancellor with immediate effect, the Executive
Council and or the Chancellor may do so after deliberation. However, such a decision
should only be taken after giving the Vice-Chancellor appropriate time to defend
himself/ herself.
31

Statute 10: Appointment Powers and Functions of Dean of Schools
1. Deans shall be appointed against specific appointments and shall be overall responsible
for the functioning of the respective School. Dean of School shall be selected as per the
selection procedure for the Professors.
2. The Dean shall be the executive officer of the respective school and shall preside over
the meetings of its faculty and staff.
3. The Dean shall exercise such other powers and discharge such other functions as may
be prescribed in the Ordinances. The Dean of the School shall:
(a) report to the Vice Chancellor;
(b) be responsible for the conduct of academics in the school, records, and
compliance to academic policies and procedure as outlined by the Academic
Council;
(c) be empowered to withhold the Hall Ticket of student of the school for valid
reasons;
(d) exercise such other powers and perform such other functions, as may be
delegated or assigned to him by the Vice- Chancellor.
32

Statute 11: Appointment Powers and Functions of Directors
1. Directors shall be appointed against specific appointments and shall be overall
responsible for the functioning of the respective centres. Director of Centre shall be
appointed by the Vice-Chancellor with prior approval of the Chancellor as a regular
salaried employee of the University.
2. Director shall exercise general supervision and control over affairs of the Centre and
give effect to the decisions of the Vice-Chancellor and perform such functions as may be
assigned by the Vice-Chancellor.
3. Director shall prepare the budget of the Centre and forward the same to the Vice-
Chancellor.
4. Powers and Privileges of the Directors of the Centres shall be as laid down in the
Ordinances. The Director of the centre shall:
(a) Report to Vice Chancellor;
(b) be responsible for the conduct of academics in the centres, records, and
compliance to policies and procedure as outlined by the Academic Council;
(c) Exercise such other powers and perform such other functions, as may be
delegated or assigned to him by the Vice- Chancellor.
33

Statute 12: Appointment Powers and Functions of Registrar
1. The Registrar shall be appointed by the Executive Council on the recommendation of
the Selection Committee constituted for the purpose. However, the first Registrar shall
be appointed by the Chancellor.
2. The Selection Committee for screening the names for the Registrar shall consist of:
(a) The Vice-Chancellor - (Chairman)
(b) A Nominee of the Chancellor.
(c) One expert member nominated by the Sponsoring Body.
3. The University shall follow following procedure for the selection of Registrar:
(a) The University would invite applications for the post through the process of an
advertisement in newspapers having wider circulation and on website of the
University.
(b) Short-listing of the applicants shall be done by a sub-committee consisting of the
Nominee of the Vice Chancellor and one nominee of the Chancellor.
(c) Complete lists of short-listed and not short-listed candidates shall be placed
before the Selection Committee.
(d) The Selection Committee shall interview the short listed candidates and adjudge
the merit of each candidate and send its final recommendation to the
Chancellor for approval.
4. Registrar shall be a whole time salaried officer of the University. His emoluments and
terms and conditions of service shall be such as may be prescribed in the terms and
conditions/service rules.
5. When the office of the Registrar is vacant or when the Registrar is, by reason of illness
or absence for any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the duties of
Registrar will be performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for this
purpose.
6. The Registrar will be a key officer of the University and have following powers and
functions:
(a) be the custodian of the records, the common seal and other properties of the
University as the Sponsoring Body shall commit to his charge;
(b) conduct the official correspondence of the University on behalf of all or any of its
authorities;
(c) issue notices conveying the dates of meeting of the University authorities to the
members and make necessary arrangements for the conduct of such meetings
and also for other assigned duties by the Court/Executive Council/Vice-
Chancellor from time to time.
34

(d) supply to the Chancellor copies of the agenda of meetings of the authorities of
the University, as soon as they are issued and the minutes of the meeting of the
authorities ordinarily within a month of the holding of the meetings;
(e) in an emergency, when the Vice-Chancellor is not able to act, call a meeting of
the Executive Council forthwith, and take its directions for carrying on the work
of the University;
(f) represent the University in suits or proceedings by or against the University, sign
powers of attorney and verify pleadings or depute his representative for the
purpose ;
(g) the Registrar shall have the powers to enter into agreements on behalf of the
University as approved by the respective and relevant Committees or as
approved by the Vice Chancellor ;
(h) perform such other duties and functions as may be specified in the Statutes or
prescribed by the Ordinances or as may be required, from time to time, by the
Executive Council or the Vice- Chancellor, and
(i) be the secretary of the Court, Executive Council, Planning Board and Academic
Council with or without voting rights as per their individual constitutions.
7. The services of the Registrar can be terminated by the Chancellor on his/her own or as
advised by the Vice-Chancellor by giving him three months’ notice or three months’
salary in lieu of notice, without assigning any reason.
8. The Registrar may by writing under his hand addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, resign his
office with a notice period of three months or three month’s salary in lieu of notice,
without assigning any reason. The resignation shall be forwarded to the Chancellor with
specific recommendation by the Vice-Chancellor for consideration and acceptance.
35

Statute 13: Appointment Powers and Functions of Chief Finance Officer (CFO)
1. The Chief Finance Officer shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendations
of the selection committee constituted for the purpose. The committee shall consist of:
(a) The Vice-Chancellor - Chairman
(b) A nominee of the Chancellor
(c) One expert member nominated by the Sponsoring Body.
2 The University will adopt following procedure for the selection of the Chief Finance
Officer:
(a) The University would invite applications for the post through the process of an
advertisement in Newspapers having wider circulation and on the University
website.
(b) Short-listing of the applicants shall be done by a sub-committee consisting of the
Nominee of the Vice Chancellor and one nominee of the Chancellor.
(c) Complete lists of short-listed and not short-listed candidates shall be placed
before the Selection Committee.
(d) The Selection Committee shall interview the short listed candidates and adjudge
the merit of each candidate and send its final recommendation to the
Chancellor for approval.
3 The Chief Finance Officer shall be a whole – time salaried officer of the University. His
emoluments and terms and conditions of service shall be such as may be prescribed in
the terms and conditions/service rules.
4 When the office of the Chief Finance Officer is vacant or when the he/she is by reason
of illness or absence for any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the
duties of his office shall be performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may
appoint for the purpose for the duration of such absence.
5 The Chief Finance Officer shall –
(a) exercise general supervision of the funds of the University and advise it a regards
its financial policy;
(b) hold and manage the property and investments including endowed property for
furthering any of the objects of the University;
(c) see that the limits fixed by the Finance Committee for recurring and non-
recurring expenditure for one year are not exceeded and that all moneys are
expended on the purposes for which they are granted or allotted;
36

(d) be responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and the budget of the
university for the next financial year and for their presentation to the Finance
Committee;
(e) keep a constant watch on the state of the cash and bank balances and on the
state investments;
(f) watch the progress of collection of revenue and advise on the methods
collection employed;
(g) have the account of the University regularly audited by the auditors as may
appointed for the purpose;
(h) call for from any office under the University any information or return that he
may consider necessary to discharge his financial responsibilities.
(i) The Chief Finance Officer shall be the ex-officio secretary of the Finance
Committee and shall not have right to vote.
(j) The Chief Finance Officer shall be responsible for all regulatory compliances, with
all authorities, related to Accounts, Tax and any other Finance related matter
6. The services of the Chief Finance Officer can be terminated by the Chancellor on his/her
own or as advised by the Vice-Chancellor by giving him three months’ notice or three
months’ salary in lieu of notice, without assigning any reason.
7. The CFO may by writing under his hand addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, resign his
office with a notice period of three months or three month’s salary in lieu of notice,
without assigning any reason. The resignation shall be forwarded to the Chancellor with
specific recommendation by the Vice-Chancellor for consideration and acceptance.
37

Statute 14: Appointment Powers and Functions of such other Officers as may
be declared by the Statutes to be Officers of the University
1. Director Human Resources (Dir, HR)
(a) The Dir(HR) shall be full time salaried officer of the University and shall be
appointed by the Chancellor. The Chancellor may take suggestions of the Vice
Chancellor, in this regard.
(b) He shall possess such qualifications and exercise such powers and discharge such
duties as may be prescribed.
(c) His emoluments and terms and conditions of service shall be such as may be
prescribed in the terms and conditions/service rules.
(d) He shall be responsible for creating an environment in which the faculty and staff
is motivated to perform to their full potential. His role shall be to put the
personnel policies of the University into practice. It shall include strategy and
policy development, recruitment, conditions of service, dealing with promotions
and disciplinary matters, including implementation of HR rules and policies as
per the service rules. These may include all or any of the following:
(i) Develops University HR strategies by identifying and researching human
resources issues, establishing human resources objectives in line with
University objectives.
(ii) Implements HR policies and strategies by establishing accountabilities,
talent acquisition, staffing, employment processing, compensation,
health and welfare benefits, training and development, records
management, safety and health, succession planning, employee relations
and retention, Equal Employment Opportunities (EEO) compliance, and
labour relations.
(iii) Manages HR operations by recruiting, selecting, orienting, training,
coaching, counselling, and disciplining staff; planning, monitoring,
appraising as per policies, and reviewing staff job contributions;
maintaining compensation; determining production, productivity, quality,
and customer-service strategies; designing systems; accumulating
resources; resolving problems; implementing change.
(iv) Develops human resources operations financial strategies by estimating,
forecasting, and anticipating requirements, trends, and variances;
aligning monetary resources; developing action plans; measuring and
analysing results; initiating corrective actions; minimizing the impact of
variances.
38

(v) Guides Vice Chancellor and employee actions by researching, developing,
writing, and updating policies, procedures, methods, and guidelines;
communicating and enforcing organization values.
(vi) Ensuring compliance with central , state, and local legal requirements by
studying existing and new legislation; anticipating legislation; enforcing
adherence to requirements; advising management on needed actions to
reduce, and if possible eliminate, issues that could lead the University
open to litigation. He shall be responsible for developing strategies to
deal with discrimination, whether it is on grounds of gender, religion, age
or any other illegal activities and grievances based on these, when they
arise.
(e) The services of the Dir, HR can be terminated by the Chancellor on his/her own
or as advised by the Vice-Chancellor by giving him three months’ notice or three
months’ salary in lieu of notice, without assigning any reason.
(f) Dir, HR may by writing under his hand addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, resign
his office with a notice period of three months or three month’s salary in lieu of
notice, without assigning any reason. The resignation shall be forwarded to the
Chancellor with specific recommendation by the Vice-Chancellor for
consideration and acceptance.
2 The President (Added under resolution of meeting of 3rd Executive Council)
(a) The President shall be appointed by the Chancellor based on recommendations
of the selection committee. The President shall report to the Vice Chancellor.
(b) Subject to Clause 7(l) of Statute 9, the powers of the President shall include
overseeing all the non-academic and corporate functions of the University
(under supervision and control of the Vice Chancellor) including but not limited
to:
(i) Marketing & Brand Building
(ii) Admissions/ Enrolments
(iii) Placements and Corporate Relations
(iv) Human Resources
(v) Finance, Accounts, Taxation, MIS, Budgeting/ overall Financial Target
management
(vi) Project Management
(vii) Administration & Compliance
(viii) Information Technology
(ix) Exercise such other powers and perform such other functions, as may be
delegated or assigned to him by the Vice- Chancellor, in consultation with
the Chancellor
39

(c) The President shall be a whole time salaried officer of the University; the salary
and allowances and other conditions of services of the President at the time of
appointment shall be such as decided by the Chancellor based on
recommendations of Sponsoring Body and as amended from time to time.
(d) The President shall be the ex officio member of various authorities of the
University including but not limited to the Court, Executive Council, Academic
Council, Planning Board, Finance Committee, etc. Accordingly, the First Statutes
shall, wherever applicable, be amended to incorporate “the President” in all such
authorities of the University
(e) The services of the President can be terminated by the Chancellor by giving three
months’ notice or three months’ salary in lieu of notice, without assigning any
reason.
(f) The President may by writing under his hand addressed to the Chancellor, resign
his office with a notice period of three months or three month’s salary in lieu of
notice, without assigning any reason.
(g) During the temporary absence of the President by reason of leave, illness or any
other cause, the Chancellor may make such arrangements as he deems fit for
carrying on the duties of the President”.
3 Dean Student Affairs (DSA) -Powers and Responsibilities. (Added under resolution of 4th
meeting of Executive Council).
(a) Dean – Student Affairs (DSA) shall be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor from
amongst the faculty members of the University, not below the rank of Professor
and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be
delegated/assigned to him/her by the Vice Chancellor.
(b) The scope of DSA shall generally encompass non-academic aspects of student
life. DSA shall plan and direct university activities related to student services and
campus life. DSA shall generally be responsible for serving as a point of
information for students and responding to students' needs. He/she shall look
after the general welfare of the students and implement initiatives to obtain a
harmonious blend of intellectual and social life for the students. DSA shall attend
to all aspects of the University life which fall outside the classroom and which
contribute to the students’ development as mature, ethical and responsible
human beings.
(c) His/her tasks and responsibilities will non-exhaustively include the following:
(i) Strengthen the value-added services for student welfare on campus
(ii) Campus life including all extracurricular pursuits and student discipline
(iii) Hostel administration
(iv) Promote student personality grooming through various Clubs, student
Forum, Sports etc.
(v) Create social consciousness and responsibility through avenues such as
NSS, Red Cross, NCC, and through working with NGOs.
40

(vi) Oversee campus cafeteria & eateries, their modernization, upkeep and
quality delivery.
(d) Further, DSA shall guide the students of the University in matters relating to the
following:
(i) Organization and development of students' bodies
(ii) Counselling and guidance facilities for students
(iii) Promotion of students' participation in co-curricular and social activities
(iv) Recommend financial aid to the students as per policies in effect from time
to time
(v) Foster healthy relationships between the students and academic faculty as
well as with the administration staff members
(vi) Maintain close liaison with Career advice services and guide students
accordingly
(vii) Health and Medical Services for the students
(viii) Residential life of the students
(ix) Arrange facilities for the students' Educational Tours and Excursions, other
than those prescribed as part of academic curricula
(x) securing facilities for students for further studies in the country and/or
abroad, and career advancement
(xi) Any other problems of the students relating to the University.
(e) DSA shall also:
(i) Coordinate the activities of various Halls of Residence and have power of
shifting a resident student from one Hall/Hostel to another, if deemed
necessary
(ii) Make arrangements with the Railway and Airlines for the issue of
concessional tickets to students during vacations, for educational tours and
for students’ participation in extra-curricular activities and sports
(iii) Maintain the register of Alumni and foster communication
(iv) Perform such other duties and discharge such other responsibilities, as
may be assigned to him by the Academic Council/Vice Chancellor from
time to time.
(f) In a matter of student discipline, DSA shall be represented in the proctorial
committee of the University through his/her nominee. DSA shall have following
powers with respect to maintaining discipline amongst the students:
(i) All incident reports of indiscipline amongst students shall first be reported
to DSA, directly or through Student Welfare Officer.
(ii) DSA may dispose a case summarily and award minor punishment/fines in
case of minor offences.
(iii) DSA shall refer the cases for investigation to standing proctorial committee
in case of serious breach of discipline.
(iv) Based on recommendations of the proctorial committee, dispose the case
in consultation with the President of the University.
41

(v) Direction of Vice Chancellor will be taken in all cases of rustication/
suspension/expulsion irrespective of duration.
(g) DSA shall hold office for a period of two years from the date of appointment and
may be re-appointed at the end of term.
(h) DSA may delegate any part of the duties/responsibilities to Student Welfare
Officer or any other person with approval of the Vice Chancellor.
4 Controller of Examination Powers and Responsibilities. (Added under resolution of 4th
meeting of Executive Council).
The Controller of Examination shall be the Principal Officer in-charge and without
prejudice to the generality of the provisions of Ordinances of the University, shall be
responsible for making all arrangements necessary for holding examinations and tests
and declaration of results.
(a) He shall discharge his functions under the direct superintendence, direction and
guidance of the Vice-Chancellor. In the absence of COE by virtue of any reason
anyone of the faculty, approved by Vice-Chancellor will look-after the work of
COE, in addition to his own work; till such time COE resumes office.
(b) The Controller of Examination shall be ex-officio special invitee in the meetings
of Academic Council, in case not included as Professor or other designation.
(c) The Controller of Examination shall perform such other functions as prescribed
by the Ordinances approved by the Executive Council. The functions shall include
all, but not restricted to:
(i) Monitor examination schedule as per the Announce Academic Calendar
of University. To postpone or cancel examination in part or in whole, in
the event where such need arises, with prior approval from the Vice
Chancellor.
(ii) Issue suitable guidelines and notices to all concerned, on impending
examinations of all nature including supplementary examination or
examination of additional semesters or Internships etc.
(iii) Issue of Date sheets for conducting different programmes, theory as well
as practical examinations based on academic calendar
(iv) Coordination of paper-setting work.
(v) Issue of Invigilation Plan and duties, examiners etc.
(vi) Preparation of seating plan
(vii) Finalize the students list eligible to take examinations in coordination
with Schools/ERP system, announce the list and where required declare
list of debarred students due to shortage of attendance or ant disciplinary
action.
(viii) Nomination of flying squads or such like committees to ensure smooth
and fair conduct of exams.it may involve appointing external agency(s)/
observer(s) for conducting and monitoring the examinations;
42

(ix) To arrange for printing of question papers and answer books and their
safe custody;
(x) Management and conduct of examinations
(xi) To arrange to evaluation and to process the timely publication of results
and declaration of same to the students;
(xii) In case of reported incident of Unfair means initiate necessary action to
investigate as per the rules on UFM and submit the
report/findings/orders to the Registrar for Promulgation.
(xiii) Provide to Registrar hard copy of signed results and after same are
uploaded/locked on the ERP system to enable issue of grade sheets and
Transcripts.
(xiv) To submit report regarding examination(s) and results review to the Vice-
Chancellor.
(d) The Controller of Examination may initiate proposal to the Vice Chancellor to
carry out suitable changes in the Ordinance of the University dealing with
Examination and Processes there to.
5. Dean Research and Consultancy. (DR&C) (Added under resolution of 4th meeting of
Executive Council).
(a) Formulate, Revise or update policies of the University pertaining to funded research
projects. campus policies, procedures and guidelines relating to research and
development;
(b) Responsible for administration of research funding, consultancy and contract research
management, in that to monitor effective utilization of funds of externally funded
projects and related financial matters;
(c) To establishment of research and development priorities/identify research focus areas,
formulate a research plan and create research groups and identification of potential
new areas of research and development;
(d) MoU with Institutions in India and abroad to encourage research activities amongst
faculty;
(e) Motivate faculty to initiate projects/ enhancement of the campus’ research culture, and
mechanisms that support the promotion of research performance;
(f) Maintain updated record of research projects;
(g) Management of PhD program in the University and implementation of Guidelines
/rules;
(h) Lay down policies and Promote Undergraduate research schemes and opportunities.\
(i) Administration and monitoring of consultancy work in the University;
(j) Responsible for plans and projecting requirement of research infrastructure;
43

Statute 15 : The appointment of Teachers of the University and other Academic
and Administrative staff and their emoluments
1. The guidelines in this Statute should be read in conjunction with guidelines at statute
6(l) above.
2 All teaching posts, namely those of Professors, Associate Professors, and Assistant
Professors shall be created by the Executive Council. Similarly, non-teaching staff
positions shall also be created and defined by the Executive Council on the
recommendations of the Vice Chancellor. .
3 Recommendations of Selection Committees will be forwarded by the Vice-Chancellor to
the Executive Council for approval as applicable.
4 All appointments to teaching posts shall be approved by the Executive Council and
reported during next meeting of the Court.
5 Teaching positions shall be advertised in at least two leading National Dailies and the
University Website as per the norms prescribed by the UGC or any other Regulatory
Body or Executive Council for wide circulation. The details of advertised post(s) shall be
provided on the University Website.
6 A Screening Committee consisting of three members, appointed by the Vice-Chancellor,
shall screen all the applications and prepare a summary of all the candidates satisfying
the criteria as approved by the vacancy approving authority, and to be called for the
interview. Also a list of candidates not shortlisted and not to be called for the interview
shall also be prepared separately giving the reasons for the rejection.
7 Summary of all the screened applications shall be made available to the Selection
Committee at the time of interview.
8 Every Selection Committee shall consist of the Vice- Chancellor who shall be the
Chairman thereof. The selection Committee for making recommendation for
appointment to a post specified in Column 1 of the Table below shall have as its
members the persons specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table.
(i) Dean of School/Director of centre
Professor / Associate
(i) The Head of the Department concerned, (if he is
Professor/Assistant Professor
Professor).
(ii) One subject expert not connected with the
University, nominated by the Vice Chancellor out of a
panel of names recommended by the Academic
Council for their special knowledge of or interest in
the subject with which the faculty will be concerned.
(iv) Dir, HR
Librarian (i) Chairman Library Committee
(ii) Two persons connected with the University, who
have special knowledge of the subject or Library
Science to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor.
44

9 For non teaching staff the selection committees shall be approved by the Vice
Chancellor and constituted under Dir HR, unless specified under statutes for respective
appointment, by the vice chancellor.
10 The Selection Committee shall recommend to the Chancellor the names, arranged in
order of merit, if any, of the persons whom it considers suitable for the posts.
11 After the approval of Selection Committee's recommendation by the Chancellor,
appointment letters will be issued by the Dir HR.
12 In addition to full-time teachers, the Executive Council/Vice-Chancellor may also decide
to engage teachers for a fixed term/ part time on contractual basis for short durations.
45

Statute 16 : The conditions of service of employees including provisions for
retirement benefits, insurance and provident fund, the manner of
termination of service and disciplinary actions
1. Every teacher and salaried officer and such other employees, as are mentioned in the
Statutes, shall be appointed under a written contract on such terms and conditions as
may be agreed to between parties which shall be lodged with the University, and a copy
thereof shall be furnished to the officer or teacher or employee concerned.
2. Subject to the conditions laid down in the ordinance, the terms and conditions of
service shall be made in the form of service rules and approved by the Executive council.
It should cover all the conditions as would be applicable to an employee and would
generally include, but not restricted to following
(a) Personnel policies
(b) Pay & Allowances rules
(c) Traveling Rules.
(d) Leave Rules:
(e) Policy covering health and wellbeing/medical/Insurance
(f) Policy on Loans and Advances
(g) Honorarium and Schedule of payment
(h) Dependent Policy
(i) Appraisal and Career progression
(j) Recruitment norms
(k) Ethics policy and code of conduct
(l) Policy on Sponsored Projects and Consultancy
(m) Policy on dealing with Sexual Harassment at work places
(n) Discipline Policy
(o) Gratuity, Provident fund
46

Statute 17: The procedure for settlement of disputes between employees or
students and the University
1. Subject to provisions of section 32 and 33 of the U.P. Act No 24 of 2016 the university
shall provide a fair and reasonable opportunity to employees or students who have any
grievance with regard to any aspects of their employment/rules/grievance with the
University. An employee who has a grievance shall present the same in person or in
writing to the Vice Chancellor. Wherever necessary, the Vice Chancellor will constitute a
grievance hearing committee; members of which will be appointed by him.
2. Based on the report of the grievance hearing committee, the Vice Chancellor may
dispose of the grievance case of the employee or refer it to the Chancellor or Chairman
Executive Council. The decision of the authorities to whom case is finally referred in this
regard will be final unless the Chancellor feels otherwise. Cases of such grievances dealt,
shall be reported to the Executive Council for information.
47

Statute 18: The Procedure for Appeal to the Executive Council by any Employee
or Students of the University
1. Once the decision has been given on any dispute arising between the University and any
of its employees or students as per Statute 22 above, the aggrieved party has the right
to appeal against such decision to the Executive Council unless such a decision was
taken by the Executive Council.
2. The aggrieved party should submit an appeal in writing addressed to chairman of the
Executive Council giving full details of the case and reasons for appeal.
3. The appeal shall be considered by the Executive Council in regular or special meeting or
through the circulation note.
4. The decision of Executive Council shall be final.
48

Statute 19: The Conferment of Honorary Degrees
1 All proposals for the conferment of honorary degrees shall be made by the Academic
Council and require the assent of the Executive Council and the Court;
2. provided that in case of urgency; the Chairman of the Court may approve the
conferment of the Honorary Degrees and other Academic Distinctions on behalf of the
Court.
49

Statute 20: Withdrawal of Degree, Diploma, Certificate and other Academic
Distinctions
1. The Executive council on the recommendation of the Academic Council may approve
withdrawal of any distinction, degree, diploma or privilege conferred on or granted to,
any person
2 The Academic Council may, by a special resolution passed by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, recommend withdrawal any degree of
academic distinction conferred on, or any certificate of diploma granted to, any person
by University for good and sufficient cause like if such a person has been found to have
obtained such a degree or diploma or certificate-fraudulently or has obtained admission
through a false caste certificate or any other reason after investigation:
3 Provided that no such resolution shall be passed until, a notice in writing has been
given, calling upon him to show cause within such time as may be specified in the notice
as why such resolution should not passed and until his objections, If any, and any
evidence he produce in support of them have been considered by the Academic Council.
4 A copy of the resolution passed by the Syndicate shall be immediately sent to the
person concerned.
5 Any person aggrieved by the decision taken by the Executive Council may appeal to the
Chancellor within thirty days from the date of receipt of such resolution.
6 The decision of the Chancellor on such appeal shall be final.
50

Statute 21: Institution of Fellowships, Scholarships, Studentships, Medals and Prizes
The Rules as provided for in the Ordinances of the University shall be applicable
51

Statute 22: Maintenance of Discipline among the Students
1. The details as provided for in section 10 of ordinance of the University and shall be
applicable.
2. All powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to students shall vest
in Vice Chancellor.
3. Without prejudice to the generality of his powers relating to the maintenance of
discipline and taking such action in the interest of maintaining discipline as may seem to
him appropriate, the Vice Chancellor may in the exercise of his /her powers aforesaid,
order or direct that any student or student he expelled from the university , or be fined
a sum of rupees ( that may be specified), or be debarred from taking an examination or
examination for one or more years or that the results of student or student concerned
in the examination or examination in which he/she has or they have appeared be
cancelled.
4. The Vice chancellor may, delegate all or such of his powers, as he deems proper to the
Dean ,and to such other persons as he may specify in this behalf ,by the approval of the
Chancellor of the university.
52

Statute 23: The Establishment and Abolition of Departments, Centres and other
Constituents etc.
1. There shall be Programs of Study in the University for Degrees, Diplomas and
Certificates in different Schools/Departments/Centres.
2. The University shall offer such programs in the Departments and Centres as the
Executive Council may approve, on the recommendation of the Academic Council either
on its own or on the initiative of Department(s)/Centre(s).
3. Further, the Executive Council based on the advise of the Academic Council create any
such Department or Constituent as allowed in the Act for conduct of courses or
programs as per the UP Act 24 of 2016.
4. The Executive Council in addition to the powers to introduce, modify a
Department/centre may also discontinue/abolish a program/Department/Centre on
recommendations of the Academic Council. The procedure for phasing out a
program/Department shall be based on following
(a) When the courses offered by the Department become obsolete.
(b) When the subscription on such courses become untenable to continue.
(c) When alternate and better programs become available.
5. Before approving such discontinuation the Executive Council shall ensure that the
existing students in the program/Department are allowed to complete the courses in
which registered.
53

Statute 24: The Delegation of powers vested in the Authorities or Officers of the
University
1. Subject to the provisions of the UP Act 24 of 2016, any officer or authority of the
University may delegate his or its powers to any other officer or authority or person
under his or its respective control and subject to the condition that overall responsibility
for the exercise of the power so delegated shall continue to vest in the officer or
authority delegating such powers.
2. Such delegation of power shall be notified and approved by the executive council.
54

Statute 25: All other Matters, which may be by the U.P. Act 24 of 2016, are to be
or may be prescribed
1. Provision Regarding fee to be charged from the Students
(a) The fee to be charged by the University shall be as defined in the relevant
Ordinances of the University.
(b) All the Programs in the University will be run in self-finance mode. The types of
fee which may be charged from the students shall be as per the ordinance;
(c) The University can introduce any other heads of fees from time to time.
(d) In addition, charges for duplicate mark sheets, issuance of degree and such other
examinations or result, related fee may be charged from the students, as
prescribed in the Ordinance.
2. Administration of Endowments
Administration of Endowments for the award of fellowships, Scholarships, Medals,
Prizes etc. in the University-in addition to regular scholarships/ Fellowships/
Assistantships for Ph.D, M.Tech. Chancellor's Medals, Vice-Chancellor's Medals shall be
as follows:
(a) The Executive Council may accept donations for creation of endowment fund for
the award of Fellowship, Scholarship, Stipend, Medals, and Prizes etc.
(b) The Executive Council shall administer all such endowments.
(c) The award shall be made out of the annualising amount accruing from the
Endowment. Any part of the income which is not so utilized shall be added to the
endowment.
(d) The Executive Council shall prescribe the conditions of depositing the
endowment in a bank.
(e) The value of endowment necessary for instituting an award shall be prescribed
by the Executive Council.
(f) In case any endowment is accepted by the Executive Council, the Executive
Council shall make a regulation for it, giving such details as the name of the
donor, name of endowment, initial value and the purpose of the endowment,
etc.
55

3. Annual Report and the Balance Sheet
(a) The Annual Report and Balance Sheet of the University along with income and
expenditure accounts of the University, duly audited by the charted accountant
appointed by the University shall be prepared by the Finance Committee. The
Annual Report shall be for the academic year (July to June) whereas Annual
audited accounts shall be for financial year (April to March).
(b) The Report shall be placed before the Court, along with the comments of the
Executive Council for approval.
(c) A copy of the annual report and the annual accounts prepared under Sub-section
(1) above shall be presented to the Sponsoring Body after approval by the Court.
4. Resignation
Resignation rendered by an employee shall be processed as per the Regulations
prescribed for the purpose.
(a) Any member other than an-officio member of the Court, the Executive Council,
the Academic Council or any other authority of the University or Committee may
resign by a letter addressed to the chairman respective authority and process
the same through Registrar. The resignation, once accepted, shall take effect as
soon as the letter is received by the Dir HR.
(b) Any Officer of the University (whether salaried or otherwise) may resign his
office by a letter addressed to the Dir HR. Provided that such resignation shall
take effect only on the date from which the same is accepted by the Authority
competent to fill the vacancy.
5. Action Against Teachers and Non-Teaching staff including removal
(a) Where there is an allegation of misconduct against a teacher, the Vice-
Chancellor shall institute an inquiry committee for the purpose. Vice –Chancellor
may, if he thinks fit, by order in writing, place the teacher suspension and shall
forthwith report to the Chancellor the circumstances under which the order was
made:
(i) Based on the inquiry committee report, the Vice-Chancellor may decide
course of action including suspension depending on the severity of the
misconduct, however, for taking actions to the extent of termination of
the teacher concerned, the Vice-Chancellor shall take the approval of the
Chancellor whose decision will be final.
56

(ii) An appeal against any action can be made to the Chancellor within 30
days from the date of receiving of the communication of such order.
(iii) Where there is an allegation of misconduct against a teacher, the
(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in the terms of his contract of service or of
his appointment, The Court shall be entitled to remove a teacher on the ground
of misconduct.
(c) Save as aforesaid the Governing Body shall not be entitled to remove a teacher
expect for a good and sufficient cause and after giving three months’ notice in
writing or payment of three months’ salary in lieu of notice.
(d) No teacher shall be removed until he has been given a reasonable opportunity to
show cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him/her.
(e) The removal of a teacher shall take effect from the date on which the order of
removal in made:
(i) Non-Teaching Where there is an allegation of misconduct against a non-
teaching employee; the Vice-Chancellor/Director shall constitute an
inquiry committee for the purpose.
(ii) Based on the inquiry committee report, the Vice-Chancellor may decide
course of action.
(iii) An appeal against any action can be made to the Chancellor within 30
days from the date of passing such order.
(f) Removal of employees other than a teacher
(i) Notwithstanding anything contained in the terms of his contract of service or
of his appointment, an employee of the University, other than a teacher ,may
be removed by the Authority which is competent to appoint the employee
if:-
(aa) he/she is of unsound mind;
(ba) he/she is an undischarged insolvent;
(ca) he/she has been convicted by a court of law of any criminal offence or
an offence involving moral turpitude and;
(da) he/she is otherwise guilty of misconduct
(ii) Provided that no officer of the University shall be removed from his unless
resolution to that effect is passed by the Court
(iii) No such employees shall be removed until he/she has been given a
reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to be
taken in regard to him/her.
57

6. Rules and Regulations :
Subject to the provisions of the U.P. Act No 24 of 2016 ,Statutes and Ordinances, the
Executive Council shall frame Rules and Regulation for effective functioning of the
University.
7. Disputes as to Membership
If any question arises, whether any person has been duly nominated or appointed or is
entitled to be a member of any authority or any Committee of the University, the
matter shall be referred to the Chancellor, whose decision thereon shall be final.
8. Validation of Certain Acts, Decision
No action or proceedings of any authority or anybody or any committee of the
University shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy therein.
9. Elected Chairman to preside where no provision is made in the Statutes
Where by the U.P. Act No 24 of 2016 ,the or the Ordinances, no provision is made for a
Chairman to preside over a meeting of any University Authority, Board or Committee or
when the Chairman so provided for is absent, the members present shall elect one
among themselves to preside at the meeting.
10. Disqualifications
A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being a member of any of the
authorities of the University if:
(a) He/she is of unsound mind;
(b) He/she is an undischarged insolvent;
(c) He/she has been convicted by a court of law of any criminal offence or an
offence involving moral turpitude; and
(d) He/she is otherwise guilty of proven misconduct
If any question arises as to whether a person is or had been subjected to any of
the disqualifications mentioned in Clause (i) the question shall be referred for
the decision of the Chancellor and his decision thereupon shall be final.
58

