Bennett University, Greater Noida
Established by the Government of Uttar Pradesh under
U.P. Act No 24 of 2016
FIRST ORDINANCES
Under clause 29 of the Aforesaid Act
1

CONTENTS
Ord. Title Page(s)
No.
1 Short Title and Commencement 3
2 Definitions 3-7
3 Admission and Enrolment 7-11
4 Programs/Courses of Study 11-12
4A PhD Programs 12-14
4B MBA Programs 14-15
4C Bachelor of Technology 16-17
5 Medium of Instructions 17
6 Conditions for award of Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates and any other 17-24
Distinctions and means relating to granting and obtaining the same and
Convocation
7 Fee to be Charged 24-26
8 Research Assistantship/Scholarship/Medals etc. 26-30
9 Conduct of Examinations, including the term of office and manner of 30-40
appointment and the duties of Examining Bodies, Examiners and
Moderators;
10 Students Residence - Rules and Discipline 40-50
11 The Appointment and Emoluments of Employees other than those, for 51
whom provision has been made in the Statutes
12 Establishment of Centre of Studies, Boards of Studies, Interdisciplinary 51-54
Studies, Special Centres, Specialized Laboratories and other Committees;
13 The Manner of Co-operation and Collaboration with other Universities and 54-55
Authorities including Learned Bodies or Association;
14 The Remuneration to be Paid to the Examiners, Moderators, Invigilators 55
and Tabulators.
15 Such other Terms and Conditions of Service of Teachers and Other 55
Academic Staff as are not prescribed by the Statutes.
2

Bennett University, Greater Noida
First Ordinances
1. Short Title and Commencement:
(a) These ordinances may be called the first ordinances of Bennett University,
Greater Noida.
(b) They shall come into force on such date as the Executive Council may, appoint
thereof.
2. Definitions:
In these ordinances unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) "A Regular Course of Study" means the courses of study running in the
University as full time or campus-based study;
(b) "Act" means Uttar Pradesh Act (Adhiniyam) No24 2016;
(c) “Academic Council” means the Academic Council of the University;
(d) “Admission Committee “means the committee responsible to plan, organize
and control the admissions to various programs conducted by the University.
When constituted, its composition, powers and functions may be prescribed by
the Executive Council and it shall be an authority of the University in terms of
clause 21 of the Act;
(e) “Board” means the Board of Studies or the Planning Board, or any other Board
of the University;
(f) "Branch of Courses of Study", means the area of the specialization of the study
of any of the programs of respective Schools;
(g) “Chancellor”, “Pro-Chancellor”, “Vice-Chancellor” and “Pro-Vice-Chancellor”
means respectively the “Chancellor”, the “Pro-Chancellor” the “Vice-
Chancellor” the “Pro-Vice-Chancellor” of the University;
(h) "Controller of Examination", means the person who has been put in charge to
conduct the examination(s);
(i) “Course Coordinator” shall mean a faculty member who shall have full
responsibility for the course, coordinating the work of other faculty member(s)
involved in that course, including setting up of course syllabus, timeline for
conduct of various components of the course, examinations and the award of
grades. In case of any difficulty, the student is expected to approach the Course
Coordinator for advice and clarification;
(j) The “Court” shall mean the Court of the University;
3

(k) “Degree/Diploma” shall mean the; the Bachelor’s degree viz. B. Tech /Diploma
and such other degrees/Diploma of the University as may be approved by the
Executive Council;
(l) “Degree/Diploma Programs", means the Degree/Diploma Programs in the
respective branch/department of the respective School;
(m) “Departmental Moderation Committee” shall mean the committee appointed by
the Vice Chancellor for each department to moderate grades awarded by the faculty
and course coordinators in different course(s) in a semester at a given level of a
curriculum. It shall normally be headed by the Head of the Department and consist of
all course coordinators as members;
(n) "Detained student", means the student who has taken admission in the
University as regular student but has not been permitted to appear in the
examination due to shortfall of attendance or any other reason;
(o) “Department” means a Department of Studies and includes a Centre of Studies
and Research;
(p) “Dean, Director/Principal” means the Head of an “Institution”, a College, Centre
and a School, or the person appointed for the purpose to act as such in his
absence;
(q) "Doctoral Programs", means the Doctorate/Research Programs in the
respective branches/departments of the respective School.
(r) "Duration of Program", means the whole tenure of the particular program
(grace period of the program is not included in the tenure).
(s) “Employee” means any person duly appointed through engagement letter etc.
by the University, and includes a teacher or any other member of the staff of
the University;
(t) “Executive Council” means the Executive Council of the University;
(u) "Examination Hall", means the examination place, room, location, where
students have to appear for the respective examination;
(v) "Examination Pattern", means the system of the examination being followed by
the University;
(w) "External Examiner", means the examiner from other University/Institution;
(x) “Faculty” means a Faculty of the University;
(y) "Fee" means the collection made by the University from the students, by
whatever name it may be called;
(z) “Hostel” means scholar/students Hostel of the University;
4

(aa) "Internal Examiner", means the examiner from a teaching department of the
University;
(bb) “Investigator” means the person incharge of a project allotted to him/her by
any of the research organizations like DST/CSIR etc along with financial
support/grant or a consultancy service allotted along with financial support.
(cc) "Invigilator", means the teacher or person who has been assigned duty in the
particular examination hall;
(dd) “Institution/College” means a college including existing college or an Institution
established or maintained by or associated or constituent to the University in
accordance with the Act, Ordinance and the Statutes of the University;
(ee) Management: shall mean the Court, the Executive Council or any authority or
officer of the University, designated by the Court, Executive Council, Chancellor,
Byelaws, and Ordinances and Statutes of the University, to exercise powers
over specified functions.
(ff) "Ordinance" means the First Ordinances 2016 of Bennett University, Greater
Noida, made under Uttar Pradesh Act No 24, 2016;
(gg) "Post Graduate Programs", mean the Master's Degree Programs in the
respective branch/department of the respective School,
(hh) “Prescribed” means prescribed by the Statutes;
(ii) “Programs of Study” means the Academic Programs offered by the University
leading to award of degrees/diplomas/certificates as per the conditions so
prescribed for each Program;
(jj) “Records and Publication” means the records and publication of the University;
(kk) “Registrar”, “Deputy Registrar”, “Finance Officer”, “Controller of Examinations”,
“Librarian” or, “Chief Proctor” means respectively the Registrar, the Deputy
Registrar, the Finance Officer, the Controller of Examination, the Librarian or
the Chief Proctor of the University;
(ll) “Regular Student”, means the student who is studying in full time program
running in the University in the respective academic year, and seeks permission
for appearing in examination of the University as such;
(mm) "Regulation" means the regulation made under the provisions of the Act;
(nn) “Regulatory Body” means statutory bodies established by the central
government from time to time such as University Grants Commission, and
includes All India Council of Technical Education, Bar Council of India, the
Distance Education Council, Dental Council of India, the Nursing Council, the
Medical Council of India, the National Council of Teacher Education, Central
Council of Indian Medicine, Pharmacy Council of India or any other statutory
body as the case may be;
5

(oo) “School” means School of Engineering and Applied Sciences , School of
Management , School of Media and Liberal Arts, School of Law , School of
Design and School of Public policy or any other such school opened and so
named by the University;
(pp) “School of Engineering & Applies Sciences” means the School of the University
offering the programs of study on the areas of Engineering, Technology,
Applied Sciences AND allied subjects;
(qq) “School of Management” means the school of the University offering the
programs of study on the areas of management and its allied subjects;
(rr) “Semester System” means the temporal plan of the Academic work in the
University, in that, the academic year is divided into two independent
semesters like spring (Jan-June) and Fall (Jul-Dec), for purpose of delivery of
course work , evaluation and monitoring of the progress of students;
(ss) ‘Sponsoring Body” means Bennett Institute of Higher Education (BIHE), (a not
for profit company) registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(tt) “Statutes” and “Ordinances” means respectively, the Statutes and the
Ordinances of the University for the time being in force;
(uu) “Student” means a student enrolled in the register of the University;
(vv) “Supervisor” means a member of academic staff of the university approved to
guide/supervise the research work of PhD student/Scholar;
(ww) “Teacher of the University” means Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant
Professor, and such other persons as may be appointed for imparting
education/instructions, or conducting research in the University and are
designated as teachers by the Ordinances;
(xx) “University” means the Bennett University, Greater Noida, established under
section 3 of the Act;
(yy) “University Disciplinary Committee” means the standing or adhoc committee of
faculty /staff of the University, constituted by the Vice Chancellor for
maintenance of good order & discipline and code of conduct amongst
students, investigating any breach of same and awarding punishment as per
rules or recommending the same to the Vice Chancellor and further
recommending remedial measures to avoid recurrence of same ;
(zz) “University Examination Committee “means the committee constituted to
oversee the Examinations in the University. Its compositions, powers and
functions , when constituted ,shall be as defined in the Statutes of the
University;
6

(aaa) "University Grants Commission" or “UGC” means the University Grants
Commission established under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956;
(bbb) "University Grants Commission Regulation 2010" or “UGC Regulation 2010”
means the University Grants Commission (Establishment of and maintenance of
Standards in University) Regulation 2010 made under the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956 (No. 3, 1956) as amended from time to time;
(ccc) "Undergraduate Programs", means the Bachelor's Degree programs in the
respective branch/department of the respective School;
(ddd) "Words and Expressions" used but not defined in these Ordinances shall have
the same meaning as assigned to them in the Act;
(eee) 'He' & 'His' where ever they figure in the ordinances shall imply 'he'/'she' and
'his'/'her' respectively.
3. Ordinances pertaining to Admission and Enrolment:
(a) Admission of students shall be made on all- India basis and open to all classes
of persons as defined in the Ordinance/Act of the University;
(b) Admissions of students shall be made on merit, either through common
entrance tests/competitive examinations conducted by National bodies, like
JEE, GATE, CAT, GMAT, NET, GRE, NMAT, CSAT etc. or any other as may be
decided by the management or individually by the University and /or interviews
for students having scholarships/fellowships like CSIR etc.; the details of which
shall be published in advance in the brochure of the University. The written
test where held by the University, may be ‘objective’ / ‘descriptive’ in nature
and of a very high standard. The specific details about the written test and
applicability of Interview for admission to each program/course of study will be
decided by the management and published in the prospectus;
(c) Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the University
from making special provision for the employment or admission of women,
persons with disabilities or of persons belonging to the weaker sections of the
society and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and
the other socially and educationally backward classes of citizens; these may
include other backward classes,. Reservation of seats and relaxation in fees for
the candidates belonging to SC/ST/Other Backward Class Categories shall be
observed as per the norms/policies laid down.
(d) Provided further, that no such special provision shall be made on the ground of
domicile.
7

(e) The Vice Chancellor shall be the final authority for admission of all the students,
including those pursuing research, into various courses of study in accordance
with the rules framed in this regard from time to time by the university;
(f) Eligibility for admission of students
(i) No student shall be eligible for admission to a course of study, a degree or
diploma unless he possesses such qualifications as may be prescribed by
the University for the said course of study, from time to time.
(ii) Admission and enrolment of students in the University shall be regulated
in the manner as below:
(aa) The procedure of admission shall be approved by the Management
from time to time and shall be published in the prospectus.
(ba) The University will publish an admission advertisement in national /
local’ newspapers and / or other media and also upload a detailed
admission notification on the University website. The admission
notification shall clearly specify the admission/enrolment criteria
for each program as prescribed by the University.
(ca) Save otherwise provided, all the admissions shall be made by the
Registrar / an Admission Committee constituted for the said
purpose per the eligibility conditions prescribed for the courses
offered by the University,
(da) The candidates seeking admission to a course of study in the
University must fulfil the laid down eligibility criteria in terms of
educational qualification, age restrictions or any other conditions as
may be prescribed for it, and published in the prospectus from time
to time.
(ea) The maximum number of seats in each course shall be determined
by the Management from time to time.
(iii) No candidate shall be entitled to claim admission as a matter of right.
(iv) At the time of admission, every student shall be required to sign a
declaration to the effect that he/she submits himself to the disciplinary
jurisdiction and rules of the University.
(g) Restrictions for admission on certain grounds
(i) No student shall be admitted in two regular Programs concurrently within
or outside the University except that a student pursuing a degree
program in the University ,may be permitted to take admission in a part-
time certificate/ diploma/ advanced diploma courses or in a
programs/courses under the ‘distance learning mode’ approved by the
8

UGC ;provided further that the student shall have to obtain prior
permission of the University for taking admission in the additional
programs under the ‘distance mode’.
(ii) Unless otherwise provided, a student may join part-time courses provided
he/she fulfils the eligibility requirements as per procedure laid down for
the purpose.
(iii) A student who has completed a Postgraduate/ Undergraduate
/Certificate program/Course shall not be allowed to be admitted again in
the same program/course in the same discipline.
(iv) Anyone who has been suspended, rusticated, debarred, expelled etc. by a
competent authority of the University shall be prohibited from claiming
admission in any course whatsoever. Similarly, no person, who is under
sentence or expulsion or rustication from another institution/university,
shall be admitted to any course of study during the period for which the
sentence is in operation.
(v) Admission to any course of the University can be cancelled, at any time, if
any material information furnished by the student is found to be false
/incorrect.
(vi) A student who has taken admission to any course as a full time regular
student will forfeit his/her right if he becomes an ex-student of the
University and will not be allowed to appear at any Examination of the
University as an ex-student, except in the case of improvement, if the
rules so permit
(h) Admission Review Committee
(i) The case of a candidate seeking admission to a regular course other than
research and part-time courses in languages, who has given up his/her
studies for three or more academic years after passing an eligibility
degree/ diploma/certificate examinations may be considered for
admission by the Admission Review Committee.
(ii) The decision of the Admission Review Committee shall be final and
binding.
(iii) The Admission Review Committee shall consist of the following members:
(1) Vice-Chancellor – Chairman, (2) Pro Vice Chancellor (if appointed), (3)
Dean of the School concerned, (4) Head of the Department concerned,
and (5) Registrar-Convenor.
9

(i) Re-admission
(i) A student of the 1st Year/1st Term of any course who is detained due to
not meeting the academic requirements, may be allowed to continue
with the course of studies as a fresh student as per rules for such
programs.
(ii) A student of other than 1st Year/1st Semester, who has not taken the
examination due to shortage of attendance, may be given re-admission in
the said class of that course in the next consecutive year/semester. In
case, the student fails to fulfil the requirement of attendance after being
given re-admission, his/her admission shall stand cancelled.
(j) Enrolment/Registration of Students
(i) No person shall be admitted to any examination of the University, unless
he/she has been duly enrolled/ registered as a student of the University.
(ii) If a student takes a Migration Certificate to join another University,
his/her enrolment to the University shall lapse until such time as he/she
may subsequently return with a Migration Certificate from that
University, to take admission in another program of this University. Fresh
enrolment in such cases shall be necessary
(iii) The Registrar and/or Controller of Examination shall maintain a record of
all enrolled students studying in the various Schools /Centres of the
University or carrying on research work in the University.
(iv) The student shall be given unique and permanent enrolment number and
issued with an identity card bearing enrolment number, and same must
be quoted by the student in all communications with the University and
in subsequent applications for admission to an examination of the
University.
(v) A student applying for change of his/her name in the record of students,
shall submit his/her application to the Registrar accompanied by (a) The
prescribed fee; (b) An Affidavit relating to his/her present and proposed
name, duly sworn in the presence of a Magistrate by himself/herself; (c) A
publication from a newspaper in which the proposed change of name has
been advertised. However, the provision relating to publication shall not
be applicable in case where a woman student wants to change in her
name following her marriage in which case marriage certificate indicating
the new name shall be valid.
(k) Late Admission:
Late admissions may be accepted purely at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellor
in accordance with instructions/guidelines on the subject.
10

(l) Procedure of Withdrawal:
Students may withdraw their admission by the date of registrations as specified
by the University or before the same. In compliance with instructions of
MHRD/AICTE/UGC, the University will refund his/her deposited amount after
deducting processing fee ,as prescribed from time to time, and which at time of
promulgation of the Ordinances is Rs. 1000/- (One thousand only). In case the
student registers for the program on the specified dates or later and then
withdraws, the refund shall be made after deducting pro-rata monthly charges,
provided the seat is filled up, otherwise, the student shall forfeit the entire
amount. Further, in case a candidate withdraws after the date of closure of the
admission process as specified in the prospectus /admission offer letter, the
entire amount deposited by the candidate, except the caution money/security
deposit shall be forfeited, in compliance to MHRD/AICTE/UGC guidelines.
4. Ordinances pertaining to Programs/Courses of Study (All programs)
(a) This ordinance pertains to various programs of study offered by the University,
with information about the name of the School/Department/ Centre offering
the program, duration of the program, and the minimum eligibility
requirements for admission.
(b) There shall be Programs of Study in the University for Degrees, Diplomas and
Certificates in different Schools/Departments/Centres. The University shall
offer such programs and of such minimum duration as the Executive Council
may approve, on the recommendation of the Academic Council either on its
own or on the initiative of Department(s).
(c) In addition to the Programs of Study listed, the Executive Council may exercise
powers to introduce, modify or discontinue a program on recommendations of
the Academic Council. The procedure for starting a new program, temporarily
suspending an existing program or phasing out a program shall be such as may
be laid down in the regulations and approved by the Executive Council.
(d) Minimum entry qualification for admission to the programs shall be such as
may be laid down in the regulations or specified by the Executive Council. The
Degrees/Diplomas/Certificates as referred in the minimum eligibility conditions
for admission shall be from those universities/institutions/boards which have
been recognized by the University.
(e) The procedure for the admission shall be such as may be specified by the
Executive Council;
11

(f) A student may be granted such scholarship /assistantship/stipend/contingency
grant, etc. as may be specified in accordance with the directions of the
Executive Council from time to time or regulations laid down for the same.
(g) A student shall be required normally to attend every lecture, tutorial and
practical class. However, for sickness or other such exigencies, absence may be
allowed as provided for in the respective regulations governing the program.
(h) “Standing Orders for Students” shall be deemed to be a part of the
Ordinances”. A student admitted to the programs shall abide by the “Standing
Orders for Students” issued by the University from time to time. These standing
orders shall deal with the discipline of the students in the Hostels,
Departments, and the University premises and outside. The standing orders
may also deal with such other matters as are considered necessary for the
general conduct of the students’ co-curricular and extra-curricular activities.
(i) Notwithstanding, anything contained in the above Ordinances, no regulations
shall be made in contravention to the decision of the Executive Council in
regard to duration, assistantship rules, admission processes, intake of students
etc.
(j) In exceptional circumstances, the Chairman of Executive Council may, approve
amendments, modifications, insertions or deletions of an Ordinance(s) which in
his opinion is necessary or expedient for the smooth running of the program:
provided all such changes are reported to the Executive Council in its next
meeting.
(k) The rules governing programs to be introduced in subsequent years shall be
framed by the Academic Council and approved by the Executive Council.
4A. Ordinances for PhD Programs
(a) The Ordinances of the University shall take precedence over the rules for the
PhD Programs in the matter of any dispute.
(b) The minimum entry qualifications and procedure for admission to the Ph.D.
program shall be as laid down in the regulations.
(c) A student enrolled for the PhD program will be considered eligible for
registration as a scholar on his making an application in the prescribed form,
provided he has completed the prescribed course work and cleared the
requirement of comprehensive examination and fulfilled the requirements
specified in the Regulations.
(d) For a student to become a scholar for award of the degree, he shall have to
satisfy the requirements laid down in the Regulations of the program and be
12

accepted by the Vice Chancellor on the recommendation of the respective
school/department/centres.
(e) The award of the Ph.D. Degree to an eligible scholar shall be made in
accordance with the Regulations of the University. “The Degree of Doctor of
Philosophy” may be conferred on a student subject to the following conditions:
(i) Research work has been carried out at the University under the guidance
of Supervisor(s).
(ii) A scholar registered for the Ph.D. program shall be required to satisfy a
minimum registration period.
(iii) The thesis submitted by the student is required to be recommended for
the award of the Ph.D. degree by two external referees and by the Board
of Examiners constituted for the viva voce examination.
(iv) Complete all requirements for award of degree as laid-down in the
Regulations.
(f) A student/scholar shall be required to earn prescribed minimum credits
through courses and/or carry out his research work at the University, under the
guidance of approved supervisor(s). In special circumstances, a full-time
student/scholar may be permitted to carry out part of his research outside the
University.
(g) The date of initial registration shall normally be the date on which the student
formally registers for the first time in the beginning of a term for the Ph.D.
program, which shall also be the date of his joining the program for all intents
and purposes.
(h) The degree of Doctor of Philosophy shall not be conferred as an ad eundem
degree. However, the University may choose to confer Honorary Degree on
men/women of distinction from time to time.
(i) University Faculty, Research Assistants, Technical Assistants or any other duly
approved category of University staff may be registered for the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy provided they fulfil the eligibility as laid down in the
Regulations.
(j) All PhD students will be governed by the rules, regulations and procedures
framed by the University regarding this matter, and on matters of general
discipline, and implemented from time to time.
(k) Based on the recommendations of the Academic Council, the Executive Council
shall approve the Regulations for the PhD Programs which would detail the
procedures and rules for following:
(i) Admission Eligibility.
13

(ii) Shortlisting and Selection process.
(iii) Classifications of students/scholars
(iv) Registration rules
(v) Course work for the students for various programs
(vi) Thesis Supervisor(s), nomination and contingencies
(vii) Comprehensive examination requirement for progression.
(viii) Eligibility for Registration as Scholar for the Degree
(ix) Performance monitoring and mentoring.
(x) Minimum/Maximum Registration Duration Requirement
(xi) Rules on presentation of synopsis
(xii) Nomination of Board of Examiners
(xiii) Procedure for Thesis Submission
(xiv) Procedure for Thesis Evaluation
(xv) Conduct of Viva-Voce (Open Defence)
(xvi) Rules for award of Ph.D. Degree
(xvii) Rules for award of financial assistance/scholarship
(xviii) Leave & Attendance rules
(xix) Conditions for cancellation of registration
(xx) Rules Regarding conduct and discipline
(xxi) Depository with UGC
(xxii) Standing Orders
(xxiii) Any other procedures and rules
4B. Ordinances for Master of Business Administration (MBA) Program
(a) The University shall offer such post graduate programs in management studies
and of such minimum duration as the Executive Council may approve, on the
recommendation of the Academic Council either on its own or on the initiative
of School of Management.
(b) The minimum entry qualification for admission to the MBA students shall be
such as may be laid down in the regulations or specified by the Executive
Council.
14

(c) A MBA student shall be required to earn a minimum number of credits through
various academic components of a curriculum, as provided for in the
regulations.
(d) The date of initial registration for the MBA program shall normally be the date
on which the student formally registers for the first time. This date shall be
construed as the date of joining the program for all intents and purposes.
(e) A student may be granted such scholarship /assistantship /stipend/contingency
grant, etc. as may be specified in accordance with the directions of the
Executive Council from time to time or regulations laid down for the same.
(f) In exceptional circumstances the Chairman of Executive Council may, approve
amendments, modifications, insertions or deletions of an Ordinance(s) which in
his opinion is necessary or expedient for the smooth running of the program:
provided all such changes are reported to the Executive Council in its next
meeting.
(g) All the MBA Students will be governed by the rules, regulations and procedures
framed by the University regarding this matter, and on matters of general
discipline, and implemented from time to time.
(h) Based on the recommendations of the Academic Council, the Executive Council
shall approve the Regulations for the MBA Program which would detail the
procedures and rules for following:
(i) Admission eligibly, criteria and procedure of admission.
(ii) Term System, duration, type of courses.
(iii) Structure of program.
(iv) Curriculum, Courses, objectives, outcomes, syllabus,
(v) Registration Rules.
(vi) Credit system.
(vii) Examination and evaluation policy/system including conduct of exams,
credit assignments etc.
(viii) Grading system.
(ix) Attendance rules.
(x) Rules on monitoring and mentoring progress including
detention/promotion to next stage.
(xi) Rules on conditions for award of degree.
(xii) Discipline and Unfair means.
(xiii) Standing Orders and Hostel rules.
(xiv) Any other procedures and rules
15

4C. Ordinances for Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) Programs
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary, the following Ordinances
shall apply to the B. Tech Programs of the School of Engineering & Applies
Sciences under the Semester System.
(b) The University may introduce B.Tech programs in any of the streams specified
under the UGC Act 1956, as approved by the Executive Council.
(c) The admissions to a B.Tech course shall be generally governed by the rules of
the UGC/AICTE or any other competent authority of the MHRD and shall be as
notified in the admission notification of the respective academic year.
(d) Minimum qualification for admission to the first year B.Tech shall be qualifying
the Senior Secondary School Certificate (10+2) examination. While deciding the
admission procedure, the University may lay down compulsory subjects in
qualifying examination for admission for various programs. A candidate may
directly be admitted to the 2nd Year of B. Tech program provided he/she fulfils
the eligibility criteria to include (i) completed three-year diploma course after
10+ examination or (ii) completed 1st year of B.E./B.Tech in same branch of
engineering in which admission is sought or (iii) completed three Yr’s B.Sc.
degree course. The eligibility examinations should have been passed from any
recognized Technical Board/ University
(e) The date of initial registration for the UG program shall normally be the date on
which the student formally registers for the first time. This date shall be
construed as the date of joining the program for all intents and purposes.
(f) All B.Tech students will be governed by the rules, regulations and procedures
framed by the University regarding this matter, and on matters of general
discipline, and implemented from time to time.
(g) Based on the recommendations of the Academic Council, the Executive Council
shall approve the Regulations for the B Tech Programs which would detail the
procedures for following:
(i) Term System, duration, type of courses.
(ii) Registration rules.
(iii) Examination and evaluation policy/system including exams, credit
assignments.
(iv) Grading system.
(v) Attendance rules.
(vi) Rules on monitoring and mentoring progress including detention/
promotion to next year.
16

(vii) Rules on conditions for award of degree.
(viii) Discipline and Unfair means.
(ix) Standing Orders and Hostel rules.
(x) Any other procedures and rules
5. Ordinance Related to Medium of Instruction and Examination.
The medium of instruction and examination at all stages of education in all courses in
the University shall be English.
6. Ordinance in relation to Conditions for award of Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates
and any other distinctions & means relating to granting and obtaining the same and
Convocation.
(a) The conditions for award of Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates and any other
distinctions shall be laid down in the respective regulations governing the
programs, as per Ordinance 4 above.
(b) Convocation.
(i) Convocation for the purpose of conferring degrees and making awards
shall ordinarily be held every year at the time specified by the University
and shall be called Annual Convocation. A special convocation may also
be held at such time as may be found necessary and convenient. The
actual date of the convocation in each case shall be fixed by the Vice-
Chancellor with the approval of the Chancellor.
(ii) Not less than four weeks’ notice for the Convocation shall be given to
the recipients of the degrees, by the Registrar. This period may however
be reduced to ten days in the case of special convocation or in any
other case where such a course is considered expedient by the
Chancellor.
(iii) The degrees/diplomas/certificates shall be awarded after the students
complete the respective programs and fulfil the conditions for the
award as laid down in the rules of respective programs.
(iv) The University shall create the provisions and rules for award of medals
to the students for each year at the time of the Convocation.
(v) The Registrar shall send a program of the convocation and the
procedure to be observed during the convocation along with a brief to
the Chancellor, the members of the Court, the Executive Council, Vice-
Chancellor, the Academic Council, and Deans of the Schools.
17

(vi) The student desiring to receive degree in person must apply to the
Registrar, seven clear days before the day fixed for the convocation, in a
prescribed form, together with the fee as may be prescribed by the
University intimating their intention to be present at the convocation,
provided that the Vice-Chancellor may in special cases permit the
receipt of late applications up-to 4 days before the date of convocation,
if such applications are accompanied by a late fee as fixed by the
University.
(vii) Such students who are unable to present themselves in person at the
convocation, may apply for receiving their degrees in absentia in the
prescribed form, one month after the date of convocation along with a
fee as prescribed by the University.
(viii) Every degree shall bear the signature of the Vice-Chancellor and
Registrar. The date on the degrees whether to be awarded at the
convocation or otherwise will be the same as the date of the declaration
of the result of the examination for which the degree is being awarded.
(ix) Dignitaries such as the Chief Guest, the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor,
the Deans, the Registrar and the member of the Court, the Executive
Council and the Academic Council shall wear such academic costumes as
is approved by the Executive Council.
(x) All students at the convocation shall wear the costume as may be
prescribed by the University appropriate to their respective degrees. No
student shall be admitted to the convocation, who is not in proper
academic costume. The decision of the management in this regard shall
be final.
(xi) Degrees will be distributed to the students attending the convocation at
the place, time and day specified by notification before or after the
convocation as decided by the University. A rehearsal may be arranged
on or before the day of the Convocation, at which students for
Degrees/Diplomas must be present. Students not present at the
rehearsal run the risk of not being admitted to the Convocation.
(xii) The Academic Procession shall comprise the Chancellor, the Vice-
Chancellor, the Deans of Schools, the members of the Court, nominees
of Executive Council, members of Academic Council and the Registrar.
They shall assemble at the place notified at the appointed hour and shall
walk in procession in the following order to the convocation hall: there
may be invocation of “any supreme power” to bless the passing-out
students and the beginning of their careers, while the Academic
Procession is moving towards dais in following order.
18

(aa) The Registrar
(ba) Members of the Academic Council
(ca) Members of the Executive Council
(da) Members of the Court
(ea) Deans
(fa) Directors
(ga) The Vice-Chancellor
(ha) The Chief Guest, if any
(ia) Other nominated Guest(s)
(ja) The Chancellor
(xiii) All above shall take their seats on the dais in places reserved for them.
(xiv) The students present at the convocation shall take their seats at the
places reserved for them before the procession enters the convocation
hall. As the procession enters the convocation hall, all shall rise and
remain standing until the members of the procession have taken their
respective seats.
(xv) Lamp may be lighted, to invoke the blessings of “any supreme power”.
(xvi) The Registrar shall take the sanction of the Chancellor and in his
absence the Pro Chancellor/Vice Chancellor to start the proceedings by
saying “The convocation of the Bennett University has been called to
confer the undergraduate degrees, postgraduate degrees, doctorate
degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions (as the case may be),
upon the students who have been certified to be worthy of these
degrees. May I, with your permission declare the Convocation open?"
the Chancellor or the Pro Chancellor/Vice Chancellor shall then
pronounce." I permit the convocation to be declared open”. Thereafter
the Registrar shall pronounce "With the permission of Chancellor/ Pro
Chancellor/Vice Chancellor I, declare the Convocation open".
(xvii) The Vice-Chancellor will then present the annual report of the
University.
(xviii) The Honorary Degrees, if any, shall be conferred immediately after the
opening of the convocation. The recipient/distinguished person to be
awarded honorary degree shall be introduced ordinarily by the Vice-
Chancellor, who shall welcome him/her and read out the citation about
his/her qualifications. The Vice-Chancellor will then request the
Chancellor to confer the Honorary Degree in the following words:
19

"By virtue of the authority vested in me as the Vice Chancellor of the
Bennett University, I request Hon’ble Chancellor, that you may be
pleased to graciously confer upon ___(Name of the distinguished
person) the Degree of ___________________(Honoris Causa) for his
outstanding services."
The Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor in presenting the Certificate of the
honorary degree shall say to the recipient: "I confer
on________________the Degree of_____________________ (honoris
Causa).
The National Anthem of the Country of the Dignitary, on whom the
Degree is conferred, shall be played, if necessary.
The recipient of the Honorary Degree will then present his address, if
any.
(xix) Chancellor or in his absence the Pro/Vice- Chancellor shall then say: "Let
the students be presented".
(xx) The following shall be the order of the presentation of degrees:
(aa) Ph.D Degrees in Engineering/ Science/ Management/
Humanities/ Social sciences in that order;
(ba) Post Graduate Degrees (in Engineering/ Science/ Business
Administration);
(ca) B.Tech Degrees;
(da) Diploma/Certificates;
(ea) Vice-Chancellor Gold Medal;
(fa) Chancellor Gold Medal.
(xxi) The Deans of their respective schools and in their absence the Registrar
shall present all the students for various degrees under the School and
the Vice-Chancellor shall admit the students present, also in absentia, to
the degrees concerned. The citation for the Deans of the School and the
Vice-Chancellor shall be:
"Sir, I present to you this/these student/students, who have been
examined and found, qualified for the degree of
______________________ to which I pray he/they may be admitted."
The Vice-Chancellor shall address each time as follows while awarding
the degree say to the students, who shall remain standing. (This activity
of charging) may be done collectively after presenting all the degrees)
20

"By virtue of the authority vested in me as Vice-Chancellor of the
University, I admit you to the degree of _____________________ in this
University and charge you to prove worthy of the honour conferred on
you.
The student shall acknowledge with a bow. The recipients of the
degrees shall remain standing while the Dean and the Vice-Chancellor
admit the students to the degrees.
(xxii) After the degrees have been conferred, the Registrar shall declare the
number of Degrees/Diplomas that have been conferred on Regular and
Part Time Students present in the convocation and also in absentia.
(xxiii) The Chancellor, or in his absence the Pro/Vice-Chancellor, shall then
present the medals and prizes to the recipients of the
medals/prizes, who shall be called individually by the Registrar and
shall stand before the Chancellor or the Pro/Vice-Chancellor, as the case
may be.
(xxiv) The Chancellor, and in his absence the Pro/Vice-Chancellor, will then
introduce the chief Guest and request him to address the convocation.
(xxv) The Chief Guest will then deliver the convocation address.
(xxvi) The Registrar with the permission of the Chancellor, and in his absence
with the permission of the Pro/Vice-Chancellor will then declare the
convocation closed.
(xxvii) National Anthem shall then be played, after requesting all to stand up
for the National Anthem.
(xxviii) The procession will then leave the convocation hall in the reverse order
in which it had entered. All shall remain standing till the procession
moves out of the hall.
(xxix) If any student fails to attend the Convocation, he/she shall pay a sum, as
may be specified from time to time to the University before he/she is
admitted to the Degree/Diploma.
(xxx) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Ordinance, the Chancellor
may suspend holding of the annual convocation or convocations. In such
case the degrees will be sent to the students, duly signed, at their
address. The Registrar shall notify the suspension of the convocation
and invite applications from the students, who desire to take the
degree. The degree will be sent to those students, who have applied for
obtaining the degrees on payment prescribed by the University.
21

(xxxi) A Special Convocation may be held for the purpose of conferring
Honorary Degree on a distinguished person. The general procedure of
same shall remain the same as listed above,
(c) Issue of Academic Documents to Students (Grade Sheets, Transcripts,
Provisional Degree Certificates and Other Documents)
(i) University shall adopt following system for award of Academic
Documents to the students. The current charges are mentioned against
each. These charges may be renewed by the Executive Council from
time to time.
Grade Sheets
A. Initial
(1) These shall be issued at the end of each term/semester, as per
schedule announced by the Registrar’s Office.
(2) Cost - Nil
(3) Students who fail to collect the grade sheets on specified and
also on alternate dates, shall have to pay a fine of Rs. 100/-, if
they wish to collect their grade sheets subsequently.
(4) The grade sheets shall be issued in person only.
B. Replacement
(1) Student should submit a copy of report lodged with police,
mentioning the city of loss of original grade sheet, along
with a written application.
(2) Cost - Rs. 100/- per grade sheet.
(3) Word ‘DUPLICATE’ shall be endorsed in Red on top of the
duplicate grade sheet.
(4) The grade sheet may be sent by post to passed out students
at the additional cost for Rs. 100/- covering the postal
charges (National) and Rs. 1000/- (International) on
completion of requirements at (a) above.
Transcripts
(A) Interim (Before completing degree requirements)
(1) Students are required to submit an application.
(2) Cost – Rs. 100/- per transcript
22

(3) Application should specify the reasons in support of
requirement and also proof of same should be attached
e.g. requirement of attaching transcript by a foreign
University. In case of requirement by placement cell the
application should be approved by I/C placement cell,
whether for on/off campus interviews.
(B) Final (After Passing out)
(1) First copy – free of charge.
(2) Additional copies @ Rs. 100/- per copy shall be issued
based on the application of the student.
Provisional Degree/ Character Certificate/Migration Certificates
(A) Initial Issue
(1) Free of charge on submission of “No Dues Certificate” and
on completion of degree requirements.
(2) Migration certificate shall only be issued, subject to student
having submitted his/her original migration certificate at the
time of joining the University.
(B) Replacement Copies of Provisional Degree certificate, Character
and Migration Certificate.
(1) It shall be issued only on submission of an application along
with copy of FIR in the police station indicating the place of
loss, & also enclosing a cutting of a newspaper of repute
(National Dailies) where student should publish an
advertisement in ‘Lost Column’ mentioning the city where
documents have been lost.
(2) Word ‘DUPLICATE’ shall be written in red ink on top.
(3) The cost of replacement shall be Rs. 500/- for each of the
certificate. These may be sent by post at following additional
cost, to cover cost of postage.
National - Rs. 100/-
International - Rs. 1000/-
Final Degrees
(A) Awarded During Convocation
(1) Cost – Nil
(2) Student should have submitted a ‘No Dues Certificate’,
before being admitted to the Convocation.
23

(B) Replacement:
(1) It shall be issued only on submission of an application along
with copy of FIR in the police station indicating the place of
loss, & also enclosing a cutting of a Newspaper of repute
(National dallies) where student should publish an
advertisement in ‘Lost Column’ mentioning the city where
documents have been lost.
(2) Word ‘Duplicate’ shall be written in red ink on top.
(3) The degree shall be unsigned, but authenticated by the
Registrar
(4) The cost of replacement shall be Rs. 5000/- for each of the
certificate. These may be sent by post at following additional
cost, to cover the cost of postage.
National - Rs. 100/-
International - Rs. 1000/-
(ii) I Cards
(a) Initial Cost - Nil
(b) Replacement Fine of Rs. 500/- to be paid by the student along
with an application. Word ‘DUPLICATE’ shall be written in red ink
on Top.
(iii) Booklet on Academic Rules & Standing Orders
(a) Initial (1st Year) Cost - Nil
(b) Additional Copies May be issued @ Rs. 200- per booklet.
(iv) Attested Copies University may specify charges for providing attested
copies of the documents from time to time.
7. Ordinance Related to Fee to be charged
(a) The University shall charge fees from the undergraduate, postgraduate,
research and post-doctoral students for different academic programs.
(b) Students’ admitted to various Programs in the Schools/Centres shall have to
pay the Fees, Funds, Registration fee and Caution Money, Hostel Charges etc.
as may be approved by the Executive Council on the recommendations of the
Finance Committee, constituted as per Statutes 5 of the University, consistent
with the policies laid down in the Act.
24

(c) The fee structure may be modified by the Executive Council from time to time.
The University may also award fee waivers to the students and research
scholars in accordance with the decision of the Executive Council.
(d) The procedure for the deposition of fees, delay fine, entry/deletion of the
names from the rolls of the academic programs of the University in case of
defaults, and such other matter, may be implemented by the University.
(e) One or more components of the following may be the fees charged by the
University, and more components may be added as may be recommended by
the Finance Committee and approved by the Executive Council:
(i) Registration fees;
(ii) Admission fees;
(iii) Tuition fees;
(iv) Development Fee;
(v) Hostel Charges to include Boarding, Lodging and Laundry;
(vi) Summer /winter vacation Charges, for those who are required to stay in
Hostel during vacation with the permission of University;
(vii) Medical fee;
(viii) Sports fees;
(ix) Examination fee;
(x) Library Fee;
(xi) Fees for the Degrees/Diplomas/certificates if awarded and in absentia;
(xii) Fees for grade card, Transcripts, and other academic certificates
including duplicates/attested copies, etc;
(xiii) Caution Money/Security deposit. The same is refundable after
adjustment of relevant dues, if any, within four years of their leaving the
University. If no claim for a refund is received within the period, the
Caution Money shall be credited into the University Fund. The Vice
Chancellor may, for sufficient reasons, investigate and entertain claims
for refund of Caution Money after the expiry of this period.
(f) If a student, scholar or a fellow fails to deposit his dues by the dates notified, he
shall be liable to pay a delay fine. The student's name may be struck off, after
this date, and he may be re-admitted on payment of re-admission fee and no
delay fine be charged. The Vice Chancellor may for sufficient reasons, re-admit
any student, scholar or fellow whose name has been so struck off the roll on
payment of arrear dues together with fine provided that such readmission is
requested before the end of the month in which his name has been struck off.
The Vice Chancellor may waive the recovery of delay fines and readmission fees
in deserving cases. He may also delegate this authority to the Deans/ Registrar
and prescribe such condition as he may consider necessary for the purpose.
25

(g) All fees and deposits are required to be paid by Bank Drafts /online transaction
as may be announced. No cash transactions shall be allowed.
8. Ordinance in Relation to Research Assistantship/Scholarship/Medals etc.
(a) The policy on the awards of Research Assistantship/ Scholarship/ Stipend/
Medals/ Prizes shall be laid down by the Executive Council and should form part
of University prospectus. Subject to the general conditions applicable to all
such awards, the value, duration and conditions of the award shall be such as
are laid down by the Executive Council. It may be reviewed from time to time
including introduction of new awards /rates of fellowship or deletion of existing
awards etc.
(b) The Fellowship/Assistantship/Scholarships shall be given to the eligible
students with in the policy frame work at the time of admission and continued
thereafter as per the defined policy for continuation. If the policy, so demands
then every year at an appropriate time, the University shall invite applications
from Students/ Scholars through a notice for the awards to be made.
(c) All awards of Research Assistantship, Scholarships and such other assistance
shall be made/ continued on the proposal to be made by the Registrar as per
the policy and rules and approved by the Vice Chancellor.
(d) The award of Research Fellowship/Assistantship shall generally be made
subject to the following conditions:
(i) Research Fellowship shall be awarded to research fellows engaged in
certain research project sanctioned by a funding agency to carry out
research work in the University. The research Assistantship may also be
awarded to students enrolled for Ph.D. programs in the respective
disciplines in the University.
(ii) The terms and conditions for the award and the duration of a Research
Fellowship shall be as per the guidelines of the respective funding
agency. In the absence of any guidelines of a funding agency, the
university may frame its own guidelines to regulate such fellowships as
and when required. Such staff may or may not be registered as a Ph.D.
student in the university. However, research staff who is awarded a
research fellowship to work in the university has to submit an
undertaking that he/she is not registered for Ph.D. degree in any other
university.
(iii) The maximum duration of which Research Assistantship can be awarded
to any Ph.D. student is 5 years or till the end of the Term in which thesis
is submitted, whichever is earlier. Continuation of the Assistantship is
contingent on satisfactory academic performance and satisfactory
performance in the discharge of responsibilities assigned under the
scheme.
26

(iv) The fellow/scholar will do whole time research work under an approved
Investigator/Supervisor on a subject approved by the funding agency/
University.
(v) The fellow/scholar shall not accept or hold any appointment paid or
otherwise or receive any emolument, salary, stipend etc., from any
other source during the tenure of the award nor shall he/she engage
him/herself in any profession or trade during that period. Ph.D scholar
may, however, be given teaching/other academic assignment of not
more than 8 hours a week in the University, where he/she where he
/she is working without any other remuneration.
(vi) The fellow/scholar shall not join any other course of study or appear in
any examination after commencing work under the fellowship/
scholarship. Provided that the Vice-Chancellor may, on the
recommendation of the supervisor, permit the fellow/scholar to join an
essential subject/ course or a language diploma course and appear in an
examination.
(vii) If any information submitted by a fellow/scholar in his application is
found to be incorrect, incomplete or misleading, the award may be
terminated (by the Academic Council) after giving him an opportunity of
being heard.
(viii) If at any time it should appear to the University that the progress or
conduct of the fellow/scholar has not been satisfactory, the
fellowship/scholarship may be suspended or withdrawn.
(ix) Leave as defined in the rules for the program shall only be allowed to
the scholar in receipt of fellowship. No other leave with
fellowship/scholarship shall be admissible.
(x) The fellow/scholar may, in a special case, be allowed leave by the
University without fellowship/ scholarship for a period defined in the
rules of the program on the recommendation of the supervisor.
(xi) The fellow/scholar shall be required to pay the fee prescribed by the
University where he works.
(e) Teaching Assistantship for Post graduate students
(i) The teaching Assistantship instituted by the University shall ordinarily be
tenable for academic session i.e. ten months per year on condition that
the holder continues to fulfil the conditions for continuation of such
award.
27

(ii) The teaching Assistantship shall be tenable from the date on which the
workload is assigned in the respective term/semester in all cases.
(iii) The payment of teaching Assistantship shall be made only on receipt of
scholar's receipt bills duly countersigned by the Head of Department
where he studies. No teaching Assistantship/ shall be drawn for a
month, unless the scholarship holder has attended the Department
/University regularly in that month.
(iv) The disbursement of teaching Assistantship shall be done in accordance
with the procedure that may be laid down by the University.
(v) A teaching Assistantship/S holder shall not combine any other course of
study without permission of the Vice-Chancellor.
(vi) A teaching Assistantship shall be cancelled, if the scholarship holder fails
to secure the examination result as prescribed by the University.
(vii) A teaching Assistantship/S holder shall at all times maintains good
conduct and behaviour and observe all rules of discipline.
(viii) Award of Teaching Assistantship for postgraduate course shall ordinarily
be covered under following conditions:
(aa) Students who are admitted on full time basis and who have a
valid GATE score greater than or equal to 90 percentile.
Scholarship may also be awarded to students with lower GATE
percentile depending upon the merit position as per decision of
the Management.
(ba) Initially the Scholarship will be given for one term/semester
only. Its continuation is subject to satisfactory performance as
laid down in the Rules for the program..
(ca) Full time students, who were not awarded a Teaching
Assistantship, would be considered for same at the end of each
of the Academic year. Such Assistantship may be offered to all
students who have GPA greater than or equal to 3.33. No award
of scholarship will be considered after the second term/semester
is over.
(da) The students may be allocated load by the HODs, for the
following:
(1) Assistance in tutorial classes for UG Programs;
(2) Assistance in lab classes for UG Programs;
28

(3) Assist HOD, nominated supervisor(s), M.Tech. Program
coordinator(s) or faculty in charge fellowship coordination
for:
 Record keeping in the Department;
 Development of Labs;
 Stock taking of Labs/Stores;
 Literature survey;
 Report(s) preparation;
 Tabulation of Results;
 Evaluation of Tutorial & Lab work;
(4) Invigilation Duties;
(5) Any other work assigned by HOD/University Authorities.
(ea) The Teaching Assistantship shall be liable to termination, if:
(1) The scholarship holder discontinues studies during the
middle of a session;
(2) Failure in any subject;
(3) GPA is less than 3;
(4) Conversion from full time to part time status;
(5) Attendance in Lectures, Tutorials and Laboratories taken
separately is less than 80%;
(6) Unsatisfactory performance in the teaching load allocated;
(7) The scholarship holder, after he has been given a
reasonable opportunity to explain his conduct, is in the
opinion of the Dean of school, found guilty of a breach of
the Ordinance.
(fa) Teaching Load: Total assistantship load of 8 hrs/weeks shall be
assigned to the students under arrangement with HODs. The
load to the fellows may be assigned by the HODs and monitored
by M.Tech. Program coordinators/ course coordinators.
(ga) Amount of Assistantship: the Executive Council on
recommendation of the Academic Council will decide the
amount of fellowship from time to time.
29

(f) Scholarships
University may announce scholarship schemes for under graduate/Post
Graduate students for the amounts /duration and as per conditions as may be
decided and approved by the Executive Council. The University also has the
right to discontinue any of the existing scholarships or institute new
scholarships as and when required.
(g) Gold Medals
The University shall award Gold Medals in all undergraduate/ postgraduate/
diploma Programs. ‘Gold Medals’ shall be awarded only to students who have
successfully completed the respective programs of study and are merited for
such an award as per laid down criteria. Gold Medals may be awarded as
below:
(i) Chancellor's Gold Medal. The Chancellor's Gold Medal will be awarded
to an undergraduate student who will secure first position in the
University among all programs/courses, branches running in the
University (in each School separately), subject to minimum number of
students registered for the program.
(ii) Vice-Chancellor's Gold Medal. The Vice-Chancellor's Gold Medal will be
awarded to those students who have secured first position in each
program/stream running in the University.
(iii) A committee will be constituted by the Vice Chancellor to examine the
cases of proposed gold medal winners. A brief report will be presented
by the Committee with comments on their behaviour, disciplines,
percentage of each Term, completion of courses and other
requirements for the degree, etc. to the Vice-Chancellor for approval,
prior to announcing the award of medals. No student shall however, be
eligible for the award of medal in case of ever indulging in an act of
indiscipline, failed in any subject or detained.
9. Ordinances for the Conduct of Examinations.
(a) The University Examinations: General Guidelines
(i) Examinations of the University shall be open to all students’ subject to
their meeting the requirement for taking the said examination. The
Rules and Regulations as below with regard to examinations shall be
applicable to all the students who are studying in the University in any
mode.
30

(ii) Students shall appear in the examination for the registered subjects
only,
(iii) Any person who has been expelled or rusticated from the University or
has been debarred from appearing in the University examination for any
reason shall not be permitted for any examination during the period for
which the sentence is in operation.
(iv) Notwithstanding anything contained in the ordinances relating to
admission of students to an examination of the University, the Vice-
Chancellor may, in special cases in which he/she is satisfied on the
cause, may allow the student to take the examination.
(v) The permission given to a student to appear in examination may be
withdrawn if it is found that:
(aa) the hall admit card/information to effect was issued or
permission was given through a mistake or
(ba) the student was not eligible to appear in the examination or.
(ca) any of the particulars given or document submitted by the
student in or with the application for enrolment, admission or
admission to an examination is false or incorrect.
(vi) Permission will not be given to a student to appear in the examination
hall unless he/she produces the University identity
card before the Invigilator or satisfies such officers that it shall be
produced. A student shall produce his/her Identity card whenever
required by the Controller of Examination (COE) or the Invigilator.
(vii) In the Examination Hall, the student shall be under the disciplinary
control of the Controller of Examination/Invigilator of examination hall
and he/she shall obey his/her instructions. In the event of the student
disobeying the instructions, or continues with his/her undisciplined
conduct or insolent behaviour towards the Controller of Examination or
any Invigilator, the student may be removed from the hall and
disallowed the day's examination, and if he/she persists in
misbehaviour, he/she may be excluded from the rest of the
examinations after approval from the Vice Chancellor.
(viii) If a student acts in a violent manner or uses force or makes a display of
force towards the Controller of Examination or any Invigilator at the
Hall/Examination room or in its precincts, endangering the personal
safety of either of them or acts in a manner threatening the authorities
in the discharge of their duties, the student may be expelled from the
hall and if needed police help may be sought.
31

(ix) If a student brings any dangerous weapon within the precincts of the
examination hall he/she may be expelled from the examination and/or
handed over to the police.
(x) A student expelled on any of the grounds mentioned above will not be
allowed to appear in the subsequent papers.
(xi) In every case where action is taken, a full report shall be sent to the
Registrar of the University and the University Disciplinary Committee
may according to the gravity of the offence, further punish a student by
cancelling his/her examination and/or debarring him/her from
appearing at the examination for one or more years after giving the
student an opportunity to show cause and considering any explanation
submitted by the student.
(xii) If a student is found guilty of using or attempting to use or having used
unfair means at an examination the actions shall be taken as per
procedure defined in the Academic Rules for the respective programs.
(xiii) The University Examination Committee may with approval of the Vice-
Chancellor cancel the examination of a student and/or debar him/her
from appearing in an examination of the University for specified term, if
it is discovered afterwards that the student was in any manner guilty of
misconduct in connection with his/her examination and/or was
instrumental in or had abetted the tampering of the University records
including the answer-books, mark-sheets, result-charts, diplomas and
the like.
(xiv) When the University intends to award any of the aforesaid penalties
under clauses as above, it shall give the student concerned an
opportunity to show cause in writing, as to why the proposed penalty
may not be imposed on him/her and shall consider the explanation, if
any, be filed within the specified time, before awarding the penalty.
(xv) In case of a student who is unable to appear in the examination due to
sickness or other causes, such cases may be treated as special cases
after satisfying the genuineness and as per the gravity of the case; the
remedial measures may be taken as provided in the Rules of the
Program with the approval of Vice-Chancellor.
(xvi) An amanuensis shall be allowed in case of blind students or the
students who are disabled due to an accident or disease and unable to
write the examination with their own hands.
(xvii) The University shall lay down the eligibility conditions for appearing in
the Examination like minimum attendance in the rules of the programs.
Students shall have to obey the academic rules and regulations in this
regard.
32

(xviii) No Regular student will appear in the examination of the University if
he/she:
(aa) has concealed important information from the University at the
time of admission;
(ba) has been prosecuted in any indiscipline case and so decided by
the Vice- Chancellor;
(ca) does not possess the minimum academic qualification to appear
in the examination;
(da) does not satisfy all the provisions of this ordinance or/and any
other ordinances which govern the permission to appear in the
examination;
(ea) has not fulfilled the attendance requirement.
(b) Conduct of Examination
(i) Controller of Examination may be appointed/nominated as per
discretion of the Vice-Chancellor, as and when required.
(ii) All arrangements for the conduct of examination to be held by the
University shall be made by the Controller of Examination in accordance
with such directions as may be issued by the Vice-Chancellor.
(iii) The Controller of Examination shall prepare and duly publish a Date
sheet for examinations as per the Academic Calendar of the program.
(iv) The Controller of Examination shall determine the examination rooms
for the examinations and shall issue proper instructions and guidelines
for utilization of same.
(v) Controller of Examination shall be personally responsible for the safe
custody of question papers and the answer-books sent to him/her.
(vi) The Controller of Examination shall supervise the work of Invigilators
and shall conduct the examination strictly, according to the instructions
issued by the University.
(vii) The Controller of Examination shall wherever necessary, send a
confidential report to the Vice Chancellor about the conduct of
examination, mentioning therein the performance of the Invigilators
and the general behaviour of the examinees. The Controller of
Examination shall also prepare a daily report on the number of
examinees attending each of the Examinations, absentee numbers and
such other information relating to the examinations being held at the
different examination halls as may be considered necessary, along with
any other matter which he/she thinks fit to be brought to the notice of
the Vice-Chancellor.
33

(viii) Unless otherwise directed, only teachers of the University shall be
appointed as Invigilators by the Controller of Examination, provided that
a teacher of the subject of the written examination at any session shall
not generally be an Invigilator at such session of the examination but
available for any clarification at any location.
(ix) It shall be the duty of Invigilators to ensure the correct identity of the
student. For this each student will carry the University identity card
issued to him.
(x) The University may, from time to time, appoint flying squads to see that
the conduct of the examination is strictly according to the rules and
procedures laid down. In the event of the flying squads points out any
serious breach of rules or procedure, the Vice-Chancellor may take such
action as may be necessary including postponement or cancellation,
wholly or in part, of the examination.
(xi) The Controller of Examination may, with the approval of the Vice-
Chancellor, cancel an examination at all hall/locations if it is satisfied
that there has been a leakage of question papers or any other
irregularity, which warrants such a step.
(xii) The Controller of Examination may issue such general instructions in
consultation with the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar for the guidance
of the Examiners, Tabulators, Collators, as it considers necessary for the
proper discharge of their duties.
(xiii) Subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, The Controller of
Examination, in consultation with the Academic Council, may from time
to time make, alter or modify the rules and procedures about the
conduct of examination.
(c) Pre-Preparations for Examination
To conduct the examination smoothly in the University, the following
preparatory action will be initiated by the Controller of Examinations:
(i) Process for Appointment of Examiners
(aa) The examiners generally shall be teachers having taught the
course under arrangement of Course Coordinator.
(ba) Each department will have a paper-moderation committee
appointed by the Dean. All question papers of the department
will be moderated by the committee, if so required. Vice
Chancellor may however, allow dispensation with this process.
34

(ii) Process for Setting Question Papers:
(aa) As per dates specified in Academic Calendar, all processes and
necessary action which shall be taken by the Controller of
Examination to conduct the examinations.
(ba) A brief notice will be issued by the Controller of Examination to
all appointed examiners to set the question paper 7-10 days
before the date of start of examination, mentioning the
important points like place for setting of question paper, due
date of submission of question paper, authority to whom the
question papers be submitted etc.
(ca) Format of question paper (header/footer etc) should be the
same as defined in the notice by Controller of Examination
Office.
(da) From the point of view of confidentiality, all examiner(s) will set
question papers in the examination control room only, which will
be specified by the University and shall have stand-alone
computers, printers where use of USB devices is disabled etc.
(ea) All appointed examiners shall set question papers in two sets for
each course. The set to be used for the examination will be
selected by the Dean/ Vice-Chancellor prior to the examination.
This requirement however, may be waived by the Vice
Chancellor.
(fa) Before submission of question papers, all examiners must ensure
that the question paper is error free and it has been sealed
properly for the respective examinations. The same shall
thereafter be moderated, if required, by the Departmental
Moderation Committee.
(ga) All question papers shall be submitted to the Controller of
Examination by the Course Coordinator or Chairman Moderation
Committee.
(ha) All question papers shall be submitted within due dates duly
moderated and authenticated by the moderator(s).
(ia) All question papers received by the Controller of Examination,
shall be kept in sealed and safe custody.
35

(iii) The process for preparation of Date Sheet/Seating Plan/Invigilation
Chart/Photocopying of Question Papers (room wise) will be made by
the Controller of Examination as under:
(aa) A brief notice with important instructions regarding examination
schedule timing, shift, code and conduct of examination will be
notified by the Controller of Examination. This shall be ERP
system based activity.
(ba) After finalization of Date Sheet of the examination, seating plan
for all halls will be prepared as per seating capacity of the rooms.
This shall be ERP system based activity
(ca) As per instructions for the Controller of Examination, room wise
invigilation chart will be prepared keeping in account the room
capacity and requirement of Invigilators there to. This shall be
ERP system based activity
(da) The printing of the question paper selected by the Dean/ Vice
Chancellor shall be done by the examination cell and all printed
question papers shall be sealed in envelopes in accordance with
the room's capacity and date sheet. Printing of question papers
will be done under the supervision of the Controller of
Examination or his nominee.
(ea) Envelopes of question papers shall be kept in safe custody of
Controller of Examination.
(d) Invigilation during Examination and related activities
Controller of Examination shall take out Invigilation duty chart well in advance
of any examination. This shall be ERP system based activity. All teachers of the
school/Department and PhD scholars in receipt of Research Assistantship may
be nominated for such duties. The processes which have to be followed by the
Invigilator(s) in the examination hall shall be as under:
(i) The nominated Invigilators are required to collect examination material
from the Examination Control Room 20 minutes before the
commencement of the examination.
(ii) All Invigilators are required to reach the Examination Hall at least fifteen
minutes before the start of the examination after collecting the packet
of Question Papers and the examination materials comprising :
(aa) Envelopes of question papers/Bundles of Answer Books.
(ba) Attendance Sheets of Students
(ca) Absentee Proforma/ Attendance Statement
(da) Any other material as per the requirement of the paper setter.
(iii) Answer sheets will be issued 7-10 minutes before examination.
36

(iv) The Invigilator should ensure that the seating arrangements have not
been disturbed and all seats/desks are in order and the students are
seated as per seating plan.
(v) Before issuing the question papers the nominated hall in charge shall
make statutory announcement to include
(aa) Please check that you are not carrying mobile/digital equipment
which carries memory or photographs which you are not supposed
to carry.
(ba) Please check that you are not carrying any slips of
paper/notes/books or any other document whether belonging to
same subject or not.
(ca) Please wear your ID card around the neck. In case you do not have
ID card, please stand up and we shall take you to Registry and
obtain an authorization slip to appear in the examination. If later, it
is found that you are not carrying your ID card your examination
shall be cancelled.
(da) Please ensure that you are sitting in the correct Hall.
(ea) Do not forget to sign on the attendance sheet which shall be
brought to you by the Invigilators in due course.
(fa) You shall not be allowed outside the hall after commencement of
examination for minimum of 30 minutes.
(vi) Question papers will be issued 5 minutes before the start of the
examination and students should read the question paper after
Invigilator announces time of start.
(vii) Invigilators will ensure that students study material relating to the
examination and or unauthorized material is placed at a place
designated by the Invigilation Staff/outside the examination hall.
(viii) Unless otherwise nominated, the senior most teachers in the
examination hall will be in charge of examination in that hall.
(ix) No student shall be permitted to appear in the examination without the
production of University Identity Card.
(x) Students coming late by more than specified time will not be allowed in
the Examination Hall. The late arriving student will be asked to report to
the Controller of Examination who may allow the student to appear as
per their discretion but no extra time will be given.
37

(xi) Students are not permitted to borrow pen/pencil/eraser/calculator or
any other items from other examinee.
(xii) Programmable calculators are not allowed in the examination hall.
Calculator up to fx 100 are only allowed. Calculators will be allowed on
the day there is a requirement for the calculator to be used as specified
by examiner setting the paper.
(xiii) No student is allowed to go out of the Examination Hall even
temporarily, without the permission of the Invigilator on duty. Students
will not be permitted to leave the Examination Hall till half an hour
before the scheduled finish time. Examinee desirous of leaving the
examination hall temporarily shall be permitted to do so for a maximum
period of 5 minutes. The absence shall be recorded and if the examinee
fails to return within this limit of 5 minutes, he/she shall not be
permitted to enter the examination hall unless he/she gives convincing
explanation.
(xiv) Mobile phones or any other electric gadgets except calculators will not
be carried inside the Examination Hall.
(xv) Students are advised to write their Names/Enrolment Nos. on the
Answer Book, before they start attempting the question paper. They are
also required to write their Name/Enrolment No. on the question
paper. The question papers shall not be circulated.
(xvi) Answer Books are to be collected immediately after the examination is
over, checked with the absentee list, and arranged serially before
handing over to the Examination Control Room.
(xvii) Any Invigilator who is unable to perform invigilation duty should inform
the Controller of Examination well before the examination through any
means of communication.
(xviii) A student found talking during the examination hours shall be warned
not to do so. If the student continues talking in spite of the warning by
the Invigilator, the answer-book of such examinee shall be withdrawn
and second answer-book be supplied and the case will be referred to
the Unfair Means Committee.
(xix) It students are found copying or using any other unfair means in the
examination hall/room, the Invigilator in charge of an examination hall
take action against the examinee, in the following manner:
(aa) The examinee shall be called upon to surrender all the
objectionable material found in his or her possession including
the answer-book and a UFM proforma shall be filled with date
and time.
38

(ba) The statement of the examinee and the Invigilator shall be
recorded.
(ca) The examinee shall be issued a fresh answer-book marked
'Duplicate-Examinee Using Unfair Means' to attempt answer
within the remaining time prescribed for the examination.
(da) All the material so collected and the entire evidence along with a
statement of the examinee and the answer-book duly
initialled by the student shall be forwarded to the controller of
examination by name in a separate confidential sealed packet
marked 'Unfair Means'.
(ea) The material so collected from the examinee, together with both
the answer-books, viz, the answer-book collected while using
unfair means and the other supplied afterwards, will be sent to
the Unfair Means Committee for its decision.
(fa) The cases of the use of unfair means at the examination, as
reported by the Invigilator along with the report of the unfair
means activity, shall be examined by a Unfair Means Committee
constituted by the Vice-Chancellor. The Committee shall after
examining the cases, decide the action to be taken in each case
as per rules and submit the report to the controller of
examination in regard to all cases of the use of unfair means
with the recommendations of the Committee in each case.
(ga) Further, the controller of examination shall send the report of
the Unfair Means Committee to the Vice-Chancellor for approval
of decisions recommended by the Unfair Means Committee.
(e) Rules on Unfair Means. The same shall be as laid down in the respective
Regulations for each program.
(f) Evaluation of Answer Scripts and Result compilation/Grading
(i) Controller of Examinations shall codify each answer sheet before
supplying same to the Course Coordinators for evaluation. This
requirement may be dispensed with approval of the Vice Chancellor.
(ii) Process for evaluation and submission of answer scripts
(aa) Answer scripts of the respective question papers shall be
normally evaluated by faculty members teaching the subject
along with the Course Coordinator(s) concerned.
(ba) Course Coordinator(s) shall allot specific questions to
the faculty members evaluating answer script. The Course
Coordinator(s) will be responsible for entry of the marks, grades
in the result sheet/ERP system as well as submission of the result
to the Controller of Examination.
39

(ca) After evaluation, it is necessary to show the answer scripts to
the students concerned for maintaining the transparency
before submission to the examination section.
(da) All answer scripts shall be submitted to the (Examination
Section) immediately after the declaration of the result/ or as
per schedule announced.
(iii) Grading of the subject
The grading shall be carried out as per the Grading System defined by
the University. Grading for each course shall be finalized/ moderated by
the grading committee of the department and normalized by the School
moderation committee.
(iv) Approval of Result
All results after departmental moderation shall be sent to the Vice-
Chancellor for approval. After approval, it will be published for all the
students concerned
(v) Declaration of Result;
Term /Semester wise final result will be announced within 15 (fifteen)
days of culmination of end term examination. A notice to this effect will
be put in the University website.
10. Ordinances pertaining to Conditions for Students Residence Rules and Discipline
(a) General
(i) There shall be Halls of Residence for resident students. Each Hall of
Residence may, consist of more than one Hostel, as may be allocated.
(ii) Each of the Hall of Residence and Hostels may be given such names as
decided by the Management.
(iii) Students will be admitted to the Halls of Residence/Hostels subject to
availability of seats. Students desirous of staying in the campus will be
separately accommodated in the Boys' and Girls' Hostel.
(iv) The students residing in the University Hostel shall pay such charges as
may be prescribed by the Management from time to time.
(v) All halls combined shall have a Chief Warden who shall be appointed by
the Vice-Chancellor for a specified period and on such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed by the Management from time to time.
40

(vi) Each Hostel shall have Warden(s), who shall be appointed by the Vice-
Chancellor for a specified period on such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed by the Management from time to time.
(vii) The Warden shall ordinarily be required to stay in the Warden's room
during the tenure of his office.
(viii) Every Hall of residence shall maintain such Register and records, as may
be prescribed by the university, and shall furnish such statistical
information as the university may require, from time to time.
(ix) Every resident shall have to observe discipline as per the hostel rules
and standing orders.
(x) Duties of Chief Warden and Warden shall be prescribed and may
include:
(aa) supervise the Hostels in his/her hall/Hostel in matters relating to
the overall functioning, the resident students' welfare, and
discipline;
(ba) inspect periodically the Hostels and be in contact with the
Wardens, staff and students; be individually and collectively
responsible for the smooth functioning of the Hostels;
(ca) permit stay of any guest according to the Hostel Rules;
(da) ensure that the resident students in his/her charge observe the
rules framed by the University relating to the maintenance of
discipline and decorum in the Hostel; and shall promptly report
to the Dean of student welfare all cases of misbehaviour,
indiscipline and sickness of the resident students in his/her
charge;
(ea) ensure maintenance of discipline and decorum in the premises
of the halls of residence; have the power to take disciplinary
action, including the ordering of eviction of a resident from the
Hostel; take disciplinary action against a resident student for
keeping any unauthorized guest, take action for the eviction of
resident students in consultation with Administration;
(fa) be responsible for all matters relating to health, hygiene,
sickness, food, sanitation and cleanliness of the Hall;
(ga) supervise the functioning of the Mess and the working of the
Mess Staff if required;
41

(ha) be responsible for the overall security of the Hostels and will
coordinate his/her responsibility with the security staff of the
University;
(ia) have the right to inspect Hostel Rooms at all hours;
(ja) be responsible for the proper up keep and maintenance of such
properties of the, concerned Hostel, as are under his/her charge;
periodically verify the furniture and fittings of the Hostel with
the assistance of the Caretaker and take action for their
repairs/replacement for obtaining additional furniture.
(xi) When a Warden is on leave, his/her responsibilities and functions will
be distributed among other Wardens for the duration of his/her
absence.
(b) Rules and Standing Orders for Hostellers: The same shall be as provided for in
Academic Rules and are the as below:
(i) At the time of occupying the room, student must check the room
furniture, fixtures, electrical fittings etc. and sign receipt. He/she will be
charged for any loss, damage done to furniture, fixture, fittings and
articles issued to him/her along with the disciplinary action if
warranted. Sketching/painting on walls is prohibited. Rooms once
allocated are not to be changed without the written permission of
Competent Authority.
(ii) Students themselves are responsible for all their belongings. They must
ensure all their valuables including laptops are properly locked and not
left outside even for short period. They are advised to use good quality
locks.
(iii) Students must show their ID card to the security staff every time they
enter/leave Hostel gate.
(iv) Students are required to compulsorily get their rooms cleaned by the
house keeping as per announced schedule.
(v) Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs,
cigarettes, hookah etc inside the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any
violation will invoke severe penalty including rustication from the
Hostel/ University. Students are expected not to indulge in any of the
above mentioned taboos even outside the campus as any report of
same or detection of same on entering the campus shall be dealt
equally as if such an offence has taken place inside the Campus
42

(vi) Inmates should not indulge in acts such as loud playing of musical
instruments or radio or loud singing or dancing etc. which may disturb
others at study or work in the Hostels.
(vii) Students are not permitted to keep fire-arms or any lethal weapon with
them in the Hostel premises even though possessing a license for it.
(viii) Students are prohibited from keeping obscene literature/video
films/CDs in their possession. Any violation in this regard will result in
severe disciplinary action.
(ix) Electrical appliances like electrical irons, heaters, VCD/DVD player, T.V.,
V.C.P. and V.C.R. etc., are not permitted in hostel rooms.
(x) Hostel inmates fiddling with the electric connections, computer cabling,
outlets, fittings and using additional electrical appliances shall be
penalized, and the appliance / gadget will be confiscated.
(xi) Lights, Fans etc. should be switched on only when needed and switched
off when not required or when going out of the room. Similarly, water
taps must be closed promptly after use. Electricity and water are scarce
resource and needed to be conserved.
(xii) Students, unless specially permitted, will be allowed to occupy the
rooms allotted to them in their hostel only a day prior to
commencement of their academic session. Likewise they must vacate
their rooms, within 3 days of the closure of their academic session. They
will render themselves liable to disciplinary action and payments at
enhanced rates for any unauthorized occupation beyond the stipulated
period mentioned above.
(xiii) Before proceeding on longer vacation, students must hand over the
charge of their rooms, the furniture and the fittings etc. to Hostel
warden / Caretaker and get a receipt from him. If a student fails to do
so, the Warden / Administrator is authorized to break open a locked
room and make an inventory of the articles found therein. The
University authorities shall not be responsible for the private belongings
of the students found in such rooms.
(xiv) The Warden/ Administrator is assisted by a Supervisor/ Caretaker in
day-to-day working of the Hostels. The Hostel inmates shall refer their
difficulties of whatever nature to the Warden/ Administrator who will
take necessary action. Matters related to indiscipline shall be reported
to the Warden / Administrator.
43

(xv) No furniture shall be removed from the room and used elsewhere
either inside or outside the Hostel without the permission of or under
the orders of the Warden/ Administrator.
(xvi) No student is allowed to engage private servant or keep pets.
(xvii) Visitors including parents are not allowed to go inside the hostel rooms.
Parents/ Guardians can meet their wards in the Visitor’s Lounge during
the specified visiting hours with the permission of Warden.
(xviii) Students can be permitted to visit their Parents, Local guardians, near
relatives occasionally. All such visits shall have to be after due
permission from the authorities.
(xix) Students are prohibited from giving shelters to any other student/
outsider in their rooms. In case of any unauthorized shelter, the student
will be liable to disciplinary action. Unauthorized occupation/ shelter to
any outsider will be reported to local administration for suitable action.
(xx) All students must be present in their respective hostels as per specified
times unless specifically permitted to stay out in the night and for a
specific reason in writing by the Warden/Dean of Students Welfare.
(xxi) Students will be charged for Boarding and Lodging beyond the semester
at the rates as decided by the management.
(xxii) All students staying in the hostels during summer vacations shall have
to abide by the Hostel Rules in vogue.
(xxiii) Students are required to observe the mess timings religiously. They will
not get entry & food beyond the prescribed timings in the mess.
(xxiv) Provision items of daily use including bread, butter, biscuits etc. are
available on payment at the Tuck shop which is open as per times
specified.
(xxv) Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student found
indulged in ragging may be expelled from the Hostel as well as the
University. FIR will also be lodged against student indulging in ragging.
(xxvi) Students not returning back to their hostels within the prescribed time
without the permission from the Warden may attract disciplinary action
including deduction of disciplinary marks. The student will be expelled
from the Hostel in case of repeated offences.
(xxvii) All the students are charged Hostel fee for the semester, as such they
must completely vacate their rooms within three days of conclusion of
the semester. Any stay beyond that without written permission of a
competent authority shall attract disciplinary action and payment at
enhanced rates or on rates as specified by the authority for both
boarding as well as lodging.
44

(xxviii) The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food served
or procured from outside agency or consumed with in the University
premises.
(xxix) Students violating any of the above guidelines will face disciplinary
action in which case the decision of competent authority is final and
binding.
(xxx) Further, the Procedure/Instructions for obtaining out pass shall be as
below:
(aa) Day out pass on working days will be issued by the Warden.
(ba) Out pass for overnight/out station leave will be issued by the
Chief wardens
(ca) In case of grave emergency immediate out pass will be issued by
the Registrar/Warden.
(da) Girl students wanting overnight out pass/out station leave are
required to get written permission of their parents/guardians in
writing through an e mail to the warden from an E mail account
which is registered with the University
(ea) Girl students are advised to go outside the campus in groups of
minimum three for their own safety.
(ba) In case of medical evacuation, the patient and attendants can
move out on the medical officer's advice.
(aa) No out pass is required to move out of campus on working days
from 05:00 PM to 07:00 PM and on Sunday/Holidays from 09:00
AM to 07:00 PM.
(ca) All students are required to be back inside the campus by
07:00PM on all days.
(c) Rules for Discipline
(i) The welfare and discipline of students are two integral parts of an
Institutional behaviour. Student’s behaviour and discipline will
therefore be assessed and will receive the same attention as the
academic work. Discipline includes the observance of good conduct and
orderly behaviour by the students of the University All students
pursuing a course of studies at the University shall observe a code of
conduct and maintain discipline and consider it his/her duty to behave
decently at all places. They must follow the rules pertaining to
discipline, as may be laid down by the Management of the University
and also abide by all rules and regulations of the University framed and
notified from time to time. Students of the University must study the
Standing Orders carefully and also make themselves familiar with these
instructions, pertaining to their academic, co-curricular and other
activities.
45

(ii) The rules and regulations governing Discipline, and procedures relating
to discipline shall be as provided for in the regulations for each
program. Any amendment/additions to these Standing Orders will be
notified though notices displayed on notice boards and circulated in the
usual manner. The plea of ignorance will not be entertained for any
breach of orders in force from time to time. Therefore, students must
see the notices on the Notice Boards/Website/Student information
system regularly.
(iii) Every student shall always carry on his/her person the Identity Card
issued by the University. Every student, who has been issued the
Identity Card, shall have to produce or surrender the Identity Card, as
and when required by the Proctorial Staff, Teaching and Library Staff
and the Officials of the University. The loss of the Identity Card,
whenever it occurs, shall immediately be reported in writing to the
Registrar.
(iv) Any violation of the code of conduct or breach of any rules or
regulations of the University by any student shall constitute an
act of indiscipline and shall make him liable for disciplinary action
against him.
(v) The following acts, in particular, shall constitute acts of gross
indiscipline and any student indulging in any of them shall render
him/herself liable for disciplinary action against him.
(aa) Disobeying the teacher/officials or misbehaving in the class.
(ba) Quarrelling or fighting in any University building, hostels or in the
campus amongst themselves or indulging in any activity which
amounts to ragging and or harassment of other students
(ca) Quarrelling or fighting with a University employee or any
employee of the University mess/canteen/cafeteria/security or
any other public utility functioning in the campus.
(da) Behaving in the University campus or outside in a manner which
is indecent or which is meant to annoy or harass the students,
teacher, officers or employee of the University.
(ea) Visiting socially unacceptable websites, consuming liquor or
banned substances like drugs etc.
(fa) Damage to the University property.
(ga) Indulging in acts of theft, stealing and misappropriating.
46

(ha) Any other activity that defames the University and constitutes
indiscipline. It shall also include inciting others to do any of the
aforesaid acts;
(ia) Use of mobile in the class/academic area.
(ja) irregularity in attendance, persistent idleness or negligence or
indifference towards the work assigned;
(ka) Any other conduct anywhere which is considered to be
unbecoming of a student
(d) Rules for Students Conduct & Behaviour in Campus and Outside. The rules
governing the same shall be as provided for in the regulations for each program
and generally are as below:
(i) Students of the University must study the Standing Orders carefully and
also make themselves familiar with these instructions, pertaining to
their academic, co-curricular and other activities.
(ii) Any amendments/additions to these Standing Orders will be notified
through notices displayed on notice boards and circulated in the usual
manner. The plea of ignorance will not be entertained for any breach of
orders in force from time to time. Therefore, students must see the
notices on the Notice Boards/ Website/Web Kiosk regularly.
(iii) The Schedules for all academic works and for the Examinations will be
notified to the students separately by the Registrar/Academic
Departments.
(iv) The Vice Chancellor is overall in charge of the academic activities
including attendance and leave of students.
(v) Student welfare officer will deal with the welfare and discipline of all
students in the campus including Hostel and also outside the campus
and will ensure maintenance of good conduct. He/ She will be assisted
by other members of faculty/ staff/ wardens as nominated.
(vi) Conduct and Behavior
(aa) Students should attend all their classes and strictly observe class
timings. They should likewise carry out other out-door and extra-
curricular duties assigned to them. Their attendance and leave is
governed by the regulations pertaining to them.
(ba) Students must give their undivided attention to their academic
work and must be respectful to their teachers and supervisors.
47

(ca) All students must carry I-cards with them at all times. Identity
card can be asked to be shown by the student by any competent
authority including security guards at the entry gate of the
University as well as hostel. I-card is an important document.
Loss of I-card may invite monetary fine as decided from time to
time.
(da) Students must conduct themselves with due decorum in the
classes, laboratories, Library etc. and move in an orderly and
disciplined manner. They must conduct themselves in a manner
worthy of great traditions.
(ea) Students, who fail to make sufficient progress in their studies
and also do not maintain the required attendance in the classes,
are liable to be debarred from appearing in the final examination
and will be awarded Fail grade.
(fa) If in a particular class/period more than 40% students are
absent, it would be regarded as mass absenteeism and an act of
indiscipline. Disciplinary action will be taken on the students
indulging in mass absenteeism.
(ga) No student shall disobey any order issued by the University.
Students must behave with due decorum towards their fellow
students.
(ha) Students should not indulge in abusive behavior/ violence of any
kind with fellow students, teaching faculty and employees of the
University within or outside the University. Violence by any
student or group of students will lead to severe disciplinary
action.
(ia) No meeting of the students other than those organized under
the aegis of the various recognized students activities shall be
called without the prior permission in writing from the student
welfare officer.
(ja) No meeting/function within the University campus to which any
outsider is invited shall be organized nor shall any outsider
address the students without the prior permission in writing
from the Vice Chancellor.
(ka) No students shall use unfair means at any of the examinations
and tests or attempt or threaten the staff to get undue
advantage. Disciplinary action shall be taken against defaulters
as per the rules of the University.
48

(la) Students must pay all fees and other dues on specified dates. If
they do not do so, they render themselves liable to penalties as
in force from time to time.
(ma) Students must take good care of all University property. Any
damage to University property shall be viewed as indiscipline.
Such student(s), in addition to facing the disciplinary action, shall
have to replace the damaged property and make good the losses
caused due to their action. Students must use the furniture and
fittings with due care and must not deface buildings, roads,
furniture and fittings etc. in any manner.
(na) Students must handle the laboratory equipments, instrument
and machinery that they have to use in course of their work with
great care. Any damage or breakage of such equipment etc. due
to improper use of negligent handling will have to be made good
by the students concerned.
(oa) Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student
found ragging shall be expelled from the University and FIRs
lodged against them as per orders of the Honourable Supreme
Court.
(pa) Mobile cellular phone may be carried by the students. However,
they shall be kept in silent mode during the classes. Violation will
lead to confiscation of the mobile phone.
(qa) All the students are required to observe the decorum in the
dress code (as laid down by the University) while moving in the
Administrative/Academic block including Labs & Library on
working days. Students not adhering to the described and
notified dress code may be denied entry to the University,
(ra) Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs,
cigarettes, hookah etc inside or outside the Campus is strictly
prohibited. Any violation will invoke severe penalty including
rustication from the Hostel/ University
(sa) The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food
served or procured from outside agency or consumed with in the
University premises including guest houses. Food with eggs as
ingredient may however be consumed. Fish, chicken, Meat of
any kind however, shall not be allowed inside the campus.
Further, the same shall apply to utilization of silk on the
University Campus.
49

(e) Rules and Regulation for Library. The rules governing the same shall be as
below
(i) Students must follow the Library rules for borrowing/using/returning
books. They must show their Identity Cards when asked for. The books
must be returned on or before the due date of return of the book.
(ii) Library books should be used with great care. Tearing or folding or
cutting of Library books or making any mark on them is not permitted
and shall lead to disciplinary action. Any defect noticed at the time of
borrowing books must be brought to the notice of the Library staff
immediately, otherwise the borrower may be required to replace the
book by a new copy or pay double the cost of the book.
(iii) In open access Library of the University, replacement or misplacement
of books on the shelves by the readers is not desirable. Readers should
leave the book on the table after use.
(iv) Library cards are non-transferable and they should be kept securely
otherwise the borrower shall be held responsible for the books issued
against cards.
(v) Before leaving the Library, a student should make sure of getting the
books properly issued at the counter against the card.
(vi) Personal property or books other than those belonging to the Library
must be deposited at the entrance gate.
(vii) The loss of Library books or borrowers card must be immediately
brought to the notice of the Librarian in writing.
(viii) Polite and courteous behaviour inside the Library is expected from all
the users and silence must be observed inside the reading rooms.
(f) Anti-Ragging Measures The University shall have a zero tolerance policy
towards Ragging and shall lay down strict guidelines on the same as per policies
of the UGC in vogue and in compliance to directions of Hon’ble Supreme Court.
(g) Policy to prevent Sexual Harassment The University shall be committed to
treating every employee and student with dignity and respect. It shall seek to
create a work environment that is free from sexual harassment of any kind,
whether verbal, physical or visual. A policy shall be created by the University to
provide guidelines for prompt redressal of complaints related to sexual
harassment which should be in full compliance with “The Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal)” Act, 2013 (the
“Act”). All references/ complaints pertaining to any matter will be handled
within the ambit of the said Act and the Rules framed thereunder. The policy so
defined should be communicated to all employees and students and they be
made aware of the complaint and redressal mechanism for same.
50

11. Ordinances pertaining to the Appointment and Emoluments of Employees, other
than those for whom a provision has been made in the Statutes;
Notwithstanding anything contained in Statutes, the Management may invite a
person of high academic distinction and professional attainments to accept a post of
Professor or Associate Professor or any other equivalent academic post in the
University on such terms and conditions as it deems fit and on the person agreeing to
do so appoint him to the post:
(a) Provided that the Management may also create supernumerary post for a
specified period for appointment of such persons:
(b) Provided further that the number of supernumerary post so created should not
exceed five per cent of the total posts in the University.
(c) The Management may appoint a teacher or any other academic staff working
in any other University or organisation for undertaking a joint project in
accordance with the manner laid down in the Ordinances.
(d) The Management may appoint a person selected in accordance with the
procedure laid down in Statute for a fixed tenure on such terms and conditions
as it deems fit
12. Ordinances pertaining to Establishment of Centre of Studies, Boards of Studies,
Interdisciplinary Studies, Special Centres, Specialized Laboratories and other
Committees;
(a) The University shall have such Schools of Studies, Special Centres and
Specialized Laboratories as may be specified in the Ordinances.
(b) The University shall have the following Schools/Centres, namely:
(i) School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
(ii) School of Management
(iii) School of Design
(iv) School of Law
(v) School of Public policy
(vi) Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
(vii) Centre for Executive Education
(c) University may add Schools/centres/department at any time with the approval
of Executive Council under the relevant provisions of the Act.
51

(d) Every School of Studies (hereinafter referred to as the School) shall consist of
such Departments as may be assigned to it by the approval of the Executive
Council.
(e) Each Department shall consist of the following members, namely;
(i) Teachers of the Department;
(ii) Persons appointed to conduct research in the Department;
(iii) Honorary Professors, if any, attached to the Department;
(iv) Such other persons as may be members of the Department in
accordance with the provisions of the Ordinances.
(f) Each School/Centre/Department shall have a Dean/Director/HOD respectively.
Deans and Directors shall be appointed against specific appointments and shall
be overall responsible for the functioning of the respective School/Centre.
HODs shall be appointed by Vice Chancellor from amongst the Professors for a
period of two years, provided that where in any Department, there is only one
Professor, the Vice Chancellor may also appoint one of the Associate Professors
as a HOD of the Department.
(g) Every School/Centre/Department shall have a Board of studies consisting of
the all or less of following members, namely:
(i) The Dean of the School/Director of centre/HOD of Department as
Chairperson respectively;
(ii) The Heads of Departments (for School);
(iii) The Professors in the Departments in the school;
(iv) One Associate and Assistant Professor, by rotation according to
seniority, from each Department in the School;
(v) Two members elected by the Academic Council for their special
knowledge in any subject assigned to the School or in any allied branch
of knowledge;
(vi) Such other members, but not exceeding two, as may be specified in
the Ordinances;
(h) All members of Boards of studies, other than ex-officio members shall hold
office for a term of two years. Term of members shall commence from such
date as may be notified.
(i) Every Board shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as :
52

(i) organise instruction and research in the subject under the general
supervision of the Dean and the Academic Council;
(ii) consider and make recommendation to the Dean of school and the
Academic Council on any academic matter pertaining to its sphere of
work, as may appear to it necessary or on any matter referred to it by
the Dean, or the Academic Council;
(iii) recommend introduction, alteration and modification of courses in the
Program;
(iv) recommend creation, abolition and upgrading of research posts in the
Department in accordance with its needs;
(v) organise Lectures, Seminars, Symposia, etc. from time to time;
(vi) consider applications for admission to the Ph.D. Program in the
Department ;
(vii) consider and recommend research schemes;
(viii) appoint research supervisors;
(ix) Consider to constitute its Sub-committee (s) if required. A Sub-
Committee may be constituted by the Board of Studies to discharge the
duties in any specified area. The Sub-Committee shall stand dissolved
after it had completed the work assigned to it. The Sub-Committee shall
perform such function, as may be assigned to it by the Board of Studies.
(j) The duties and functions of Deans/Directors of the Department shall be as
prescribed by the Statutes.
(k) Powers and Functions of the Head of the Department shall be as below:
(i) Be the academic head of the Department and shall convene and preside
over the meetings of the faculty in the Department and the Board of
Studies;
(ii) Maintain discipline in the Classroom and Laboratories through teachers
of the Department;
(iii) Assign to the teachers in the Department such duties as may be
necessary for the proper functioning of the Department;
(iv) Be responsible for the coordination and supervision of teaching and
research in the Department;
(v) Recommend /Approve leave application of the members and other staff
of the Department to the Dean of the School according to the rules
framed for the purpose;
53

(vi) Be responsible for the records, and equipment of the Department and
the books of the Departmental Library;
(vii) Operate the Budget of the Department in consultation with the Dean;
and
(viii) Have such other powers and perform such other functions, as may be
assigned to him by the Academic Council, the Vice Chancellor or the
Dean of the School concerned.
13 Ordinances pertaining to the manner of Co-operation and Collaboration with other
Universities and Authorities including Learned Bodies or Association;
(a) The University may subject to the provisions of Act and rules defined by UGC,
enter into MOUs with other Universities including foreign Universities and
Authorities in such a manner and for such purposes as the University may
decide or determine from time to time.
(b) The MOUs must have clauses and conditions to safe guard the legal aspects of
the University and include issues like, areas of cooperation and collaboration,
mutual obligations, arrangement for transfer of credits, maintenance of
standards, period of contract, consequences of termination of agreement,
resolution of disputes, liabilities, financial agreements if any, etc.
(c) Generally, but not limited to scope defined below, following may be agreed
upon
(i) Promote Collaboration and partnership between the Universities/
Institutes in the field of higher education.
(ii) Exchange of Faculties and Researchers
(iii) Exchange of graduate students for a specified duration and courses
(iv) Exchange academic materials of mutual interest including scholarly
publications, curricula information and pertinent research reports
(v) Invite representatives of each other’s academic community to participate
in conferences and colloquia.
(vi) Cooperation in mutual fields of academic interest for purpose of
developing specific education and training opportunities and Programs.
(vii) Academic & organizational development assistance as well as education
& training activities in a number of fields and subjects including:-
54

(aa) Design of curricula for undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
(ba) Development of faculty profiles.
(ca) Internship opportunities with companies abroad.
(da) Establishment of periodic quality assurance practices and
procedures.
(ea) Distance learning opportunities.
(fa) short professional training courses
(viii) Contact and collaboration between faculty, staff and students, carry out
joint research Programs and exchange experiences in education research.
Activities include:
(ix) Joint cooperative research projects
(x) Consultancy work to assist the development of new Postgraduate
courses.
(xi) Enter into twinning arrangement, if allowed within the rules of the UGC.
14 Ordinances pertaining to The Remuneration to be paid to the Examiners,
Moderators, Invigilators and Tabulators.
The schedule of Payment for the said tasks shall be decided and approved by the
Executive Council.
15 Ordinances Pertaining to Such other Terms and Conditions of Service of Teachers
and Other Academic Staff as are not prescribed by the Statutes.
Subject to the conditions laid down in the Act, the terms and conditions of service
shall be made in the form of Service Rules and approved by the Executive Council. It
should cover all the conditions as would be applicable to an employee and would
generally include, but not restricted to following
(a) Personnel policies
(b) Pay & Allowances rules
(c) Traveling Rules.
(d) Leave Rules:
(e) Policy covering health and wellbeing/medical/Insurance
(f) Policy on Advances
(g) Honorarium and Schedule of payment
(h) Dependent Policy
(i) Appraisal and Career progression
(j) Recruitment norms
(k) Ethics Policy and code of conduct
(l) Policy on Sponsored Projects and Consultancy
(m) Policy on Dealing with Sexual Harassment at work places
(n) Discipline Policy
(o) Gratuity, Provident fund
55

