BENNETT UNIVERSITY
EXAMINATION DEPARTMENT
Dear Students, (For 2nd year and above batch and MBA 1st year & 2nd Year batch).
General Instructions for end term examination.
On arrival at the exam centres N Block. Students will be asked to present their ID Card by
the security guard and thereafter they will be allowed to enter the examination hall. The
ID card must be presented for inspection by the invigilator.
This is a reminder that entry to examination room will be allowed ONLY if you have your
VALID ID CARD issued by the REGISTRAR’S OFFICE. You must carry your ID card for all
papers during the examination. in case you have lost/misplaced, get a duplicate ID card
made from REGISTRAR’S OFFICE,. and you should ensure that request is put in one day in
advance. The procedure is listed below.
1. Write an application to issue you a regular I card, or Temporary I Card
2. Carry with you one passport size photo and Rs 1000/-
3. Deposit Rs 1000 with accounts, get endorsement done from the registrar office and
get a duplicate I card.
4. In case of temporary misplacement, deposit Rs 1000 with registry and obtain
temporary I card. If you find your regular I card, the money deposited will be
returned after you deposit your temp I card with registrar before end of
examination.
5. For issuance of temporary authorization slip from COE office, you must carry with
you a valid photo ID proof ( Adhaar card or voter ID) and visit to Room No 001-N-
LA ( Centre of Excellence For Nanosensors & Nanomedicine) Ground floor, N
block.
Students Dos and Don’ts.
1. In the examination hall, the student shall be under the disciplinary control of the
Controller of Examination/ Invigilator of hall, and he/she shall obey his/her instructions.
2. The duration of End Term Examination is 2/3 hours; students will be permitted to use
WASHROOM only after 90 minutes during the Examination.
3. Students are prohibited from carrying mobiles/ smart watch/electronic gadgets and
programming calculators in the examination area (BLOCK-N) on the day of examination.
4. The examination area will be closed exactly by 9.45am morning session and 1.45pm
afternoon session.
5. Please take your seat in the respective examination hall 10 minutes before the commencement
of the exams.
6. Bring your ID card to the Examination Hall and wear it around your neck. In case you
are not carrying your ID card, you may be debarred from the examination.
7. Leave all materials like, slip of papers/mobiles/programme calculator/ study material/
revision notes etc., outside the hall. Forgetting to leave out these in a hurry is no excuse.

8. Wipe your hands clean, of any notes that you may have made. Similarly, clean up the
calculator covers of any written material.
9. You will sit only on your assigned room in the Examination Hall, as per seating plan.
10. Before leaving the Examination Hall, you must ensure that you have signed your
attendance on the answer sheet.
NOT TO DO LIST ( IN THE EXAM HALL)
(1) Do not arrive late in the Examination Hall.
(2) Do not carry unauthorized materials inside the examination hall such as: study notes,
loose papers, Notebooks, Mobiles, Smart Watch, Programme Calculator etc. Do not
write anything on covers of any other material that you may be carrying. Even if,
material is not related to the examination, you will be charged for UFM.
(3) Even if material is not related to the examination, you will be charged for UFM.
(4) You are not allowed to leave the hall before 1.5 hours (for 2 hrs paper) and 2.5 hours
(for 3 hrs paper) from start of examination, even if you have finished the paper.
(5) Do not indulge in unfair means i.e, do not copy, talk, or try to show your answer script
to your classmate. The report provided by the Invigilator in this regard will be final.
No excuses of any kind will be entertained or accepted.
(6) Exchange of calculators during Exams is not allowed. Students must carry their own if
required.
Professor (Dr.) Anjali Malik,
Controller of Examinations

