STANDING ORDERS FOR HOSTEL
A new student, on arrival, will report to the Hostel Warden/Administrator who will allot him/her a
room/seat in one of the Hostels after the student has paid fees and got registered.
The following are the Standing Orders for compliance by all Hostel inmates:
1. At the time of occupying the room, student must check the room furniture, fixtures,
electrical fittings etc. and sign receipt. He/she will be charged for any loss, damage done to
furniture, fixture, fittings and articles issued to him/her along with the disciplinary action if
warranted. Sketching/painting on walls is prohibited. Rooms once allocated are not to be
changed without the written permission of Competent Authority.
2. Students themselves are responsible for all their belongings. They must ensure all their
valuables including laptops are properly locked and not left outside even for short period.
They are advised to use good quality locks.
3. Students must show their ID card to the security staff every time they enter/leave Hostel
gate.
4. Inmates are required to compulsorily get their rooms cleaned by the house keeping as per
announced schedule.
5. Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs, cigarettes, hookah etc
inside the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any violation will invoke severe penalty including
rustication from the Hostel/ University. Students are expected not to indulge in any of the
above-mentioned taboos even outside the campus as any report of same or detection of
same on entering the campus shall be dealt equally as if such an offence has taken place
inside the Campus
6. Inmates should not indulge in acts such as loud playing of musical instruments or radio or
loud singing or dancing etc. which may disturb others at study or work in the Hostels.
7. Students are not permitted to keep fire-arms or any lethal weapon with them in the Hostel
premises even though possessing a license for it.
8. Students are prohibited from keeping obscene literature/video films/CDs in their
possession. Any violation in this regard will result in severe disciplinary action.
9. Electrical appliances like electrical irons, heaters, VCD/DVD player, T.V., V.C.P. and V.C.R.
etc., are not permitted in hostel rooms.
10. Hostel inmates fiddling with the electric connections, computer cabling, outlets, fittings and
using additional electrical appliances shall be penalized, and the appliance / gadget will be
confiscated.
11. Lights, Fans etc. should be switched on only when needed and switched off when not
required or when going out of the room. Similarly, water taps must be closed promptly after
use. Electricity and water are scarce resource and needed to be conserved.

12. Students, unless specially permitted, will be allowed to occupy the rooms allotted to them
in their hostel only a day prior to commencement of their academic session. Likewise, they
must vacate their rooms, within 3 days of the closure of their academic session. They will
render themselves liable to disciplinary action and payments at enhanced rates for any
unauthorized occupation beyond the stipulated period mentioned above.
13. Before proceeding on longer vacation, students must hand over the charge of their rooms,
the furniture and the fittings etc. to Hostel warden / Caretaker and get a receipt from him.
If a student fails to do so, the Warden / Administrator is authorized to break open a locked
room and make an inventory of the articles found therein. The University authorities shall
not be responsible for the private belongings of the students found in such rooms.
14. The Warden/ Administrator is assisted by a Supervisor/ Caretaker in day-to-day working of
the Hostels. The Hostel inmates shall refer their difficulties of whatever nature to the
Warden/ Administrator who will take necessary action. Matters related to indiscipline shall
be reported to the Warden / Administrator.
15. No furniture shall be removed from the room and used elsewhere either inside or outside
the Hostel without the permission of or under the orders of the Warden/ Administrator.
16. No student is allowed to engage private servant or keep pets.
17. Visitors including parents are not allowed to go inside the hostel rooms. Parents/ Guardians
can meet their wards in the Visitor’s Lounge during the specified visiting hours with the
permission of Warden.
18. Students can be permitted to visit their Parents, Local guardians, near relatives occasionally.
All such visits shall have to be after due permission from the authorities.
19. Students are prohibited from giving shelters to any other student/ outsider in their rooms.
In case of any unauthorized shelter, the student will be liable to disciplinary action.
Unauthorized occupation/ shelter to any outsider will be reported to local administration
for suitable action.
20. All students must be present in their respective hostels as per specified times unless
specifically permitted to stay out in the night and for a specific reason in writing by the
Warden/Dean of Students Welfare.
21. Students will be charged for Boarding and Lodging beyond the semester at the rates as
decided by the management.
22. All students staying in the hostels during summer vacations shall have to abide by the Hostel
Rules in vogue.
23. Students are required to observe the mess timings religiously. They will not get entry & food
beyond the prescribed timings in the mess.
24. Provision items of daily use including bread, butter, biscuits etc. are available on payment
at the Tuck shop which is open as per times specified.
1

25. Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student found indulged in ragging
may be expelled from the Hostel as well as the University. FIR will also be lodged against
student indulging in ragging.
26. Students not returning back to their hostels within the prescribed time without the
permission from the Warden may attract disciplinary action including deduction of
disciplinary marks. The student will be expelled from the Hostel in case of repeated offences.
27. All the students are charged Hostel fee for the semester, as such they must completely
vacate their rooms within three days of conclusion of the semester. Any stay beyond that
without written permission of a competent authority shall attract disciplinary action and
payment at enhanced rates or on rates as specified by the authority for both boarding as
well as lodging.
28. The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food served or procured from
outside agency or consumed with in the University premises including guest houses. Food
with eggs as ingredient may however be consumed. Fish, chicken, Meat of any kind
however, shall not be allowed inside the campus. Further, the same shall apply to utilization
of silk on the University Campus.
29. Further, the Procedure/Instructions for obtaining out pass shall be as below:
(i) Day out pass on working days will be issued by the Warden.
(ii) Out pass for overnight/out station leave will be issued by the Chief wardens
(iii) In case of grave emergency immediate out pass will be issued by the
Registrar/Warden.
(iv) Girl students wanting overnight out pass/out station leave are required to get written
permission of their parents/guardians in writing through an e mail to the warden from
an E mail account which is registered with the University
(v) Girl students are advised to go outside the campus in groups of minimum three for
their own safety.
(vi) In case of medical evacuation, the patient and attendants can move out on the
medical officer's advice.
(vii) No out pass is required to move out of campus on working days from 05:00 PM to
07:00 PM and on Sunday/Holidays from 09:00 AM to 07:00 PM.
(viii) All students are required to be back inside the campus by 07:00PM on all days.
(ix) The timings for the out pass as above shall be reviewed by the Administration and
communicated from time to time and shall be binding on the students
30. Students violating any of the above guidelines will face disciplinary action in which case the
decision of competent authority is final and binding.
2

