BENNETT UNIVERSITY, GREATER NOIDA
ESTABLISHED UNDER UTTAR PRADESH ACT NUMBER 24 OF 2016
ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR UNDER GRADUATE
PROGRAMS: ENGINEERING: 2017
CONDUCTED BY
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCES
.

INDEX
Section Description Page’s No.
I The Academic System and Philosophy 2-4
II Definitions 5-6
III Ordinances 7-8
IV Regulations for the B.Tech. Programs 9-29
V Instructions and Penalty for use of Unfair Means 30-36
Procedure for Enquiries and Punishments on Disciplinary 37-41
VI
Cases of Students
VII Standing Orders: Campus and Library 42-44
VIII Standing Orders for Hostel Students 45-47
1

SECTION-I
THE ACADEMIC SYSTEM AND PHILOSOPHY
1. Vision
To become a Centre of Excellence comparable to the best in the world; helping define
aspirations and possibilities for the long term, and producing ‘life and career ready’
professionals with leadership qualities, who are ready to challenge and be challenged -in
the areas of technology, innovation, management and entrepreneurship.
2. Mission
(a) To develop as a benchmark University in higher and professional education.
(b) To provide a qualitative premium education and learning experience in the higher
education space in a world-class infrastructure and research driven academic
environment, to students looking for a well-rounded academic experience with
enhanced employability prospects; and
(c) To harness human capital for sustainable competitive edge and social relevance.
3. Objectives
The University shall disseminate advanced knowledge and skills by providing instructional,
research and extension facilities in such branches of learning as it may deem fit. The
University shall endeavor to provide to students and teachers the necessary atmosphere
and facilities for the promotion of:
(a) innovations in education leading to restructuring of courses, new methods of
teaching, training and learning including on-line learning, blended learning ,
continuing education and such other methods, leading to integrated & wholesome
development of personality;
(b) studies and research in various disciplines;
(c) inter-disciplinary studies; and
(d) National integration, secularism, social equity and engineering of international
understanding and ethics.
4. Academic Philosophy
Academic Philosophy of the University is built around five key dimensions:-
(a) Global Academic Partnerships.
(b) High Caliber National and International Faculty.
(c) Industry-Centric Curriculum.
(d) Entrepreneurial Thinking.
(e) Life and Career Ready Students.
2

5. The University shall achieve the same through:
(a) Student Centric Teaching.
(b) Teaching That Builds Critical Thinking Abilities.
(c) Inspiring Learning Environment.
(d) Innovative Teaching.
(e) Multidimensional Options.
(f) Extracurricular Dimensions.
6. Teaching Methodology / Pedagogy
The University will ensure creation of curriculum and teaching practices where the
traditional teacher-centric approach is changed largely to student-centric approach;
combining the strength of face to face teaching with the power of technology enhanced
learning, laying emphasis on blended learning, attempting to introduce concepts such as
problem based learning and collaborative group learning. This shall combine the best
practices in pedagogy with appropriate e-learning tools to take care of the individual
differences amongst learners of various classes and intellectual calibers. This is based on
fact that:
(a) Knowledge in every field will continue to grow at an ever increasing rate.
(b) ICT tools will continue to make access to high quality learning resources easier with
every passing day.
(c) Even a four year period is too short a time to learn/teach everything, forcing all
professionals to learn many new knowledge and skills throughout their lives and
mostly on their own.
(d) Graduates of the 21st century should have the ability to arrive at informed
judgments i.e, to effectively define problems, gather and evaluate information
related to those problems and develop solutions.
7. Pedagogic Principles
(a) Small group collaborative learning. Suitable groups shall be formed; assigning the
role of leadership to different members of the group for different
assignments/tasks/problems/ projects/learning outcome. This implies formation of
virtual collaborative groups exchanging roles at suitable intervals
(b) Following Principle of Active learning.
(c) Student centric learning.
(d) Problem based learning. Students may be given well designed assignments/
problems/ tasks/ projects starting with each unit learning objectives, learning
objectives of a group of units, learning objectives of a complete module, groups of
modules, full course and where possible even a group of courses.
3

(e) Instead of providing readymade fully structured course material, students may be
required to consult appropriate learning resources.
(f) Students may be asked to submit homework/assignments on a regular basis using in
text format/ as PPT/ other appropriate audio-visual.
(g) Use of suitable e-learning tools. Access to diverse range of simulation, modeling and
other ICT based tools, databases,
(h) Self-paced learning, individualized learning (allowing each student to follow his/her
own learning styles choosing appropriate learning resources from the diverse range
suggested by the faculty designing the course),
(i) Demonstrate communication skills through appropriate ICT tools,
(j) Interaction with peers and mentors at will.
8. Stages of learning
The sequence of studies during under graduate programs broadly shall consist of four
stages.
(a) The first stage will be an introduction to sciences, humanities and technical arts (such
as workshops etc.). This shall be common for all UG programs.
(b) The Second stage shall encompass the study of engineering courses that emphasize a
broad based knowledge in interdisciplinary areas which enables the students to
appreciate the links between science, engineering and humanities.
(c) In the third stage the students shall be exposed to subjects in the chosen areas of
study which dwell on the principles governing design and which develop in them the
ability for physical and analytical modeling, design and development.
(d) Students are initiated into the methods of research, Library reference work, use of
engineering Scientific equipment’s/instruments, learning of modern computational
techniques and writing of technical and scientific reports.
(e) In parallel with the last two stages, the student shall be introduced to the social and
economic objectives of the era and to the interaction between man, machine and
nature. This is sought to be achieved through elective courses in humanities and
social sciences and through practical training, fieldwork, works visits and seminars. In
addition, students shall also be made aware of environmental issues through
introductory course in environmental science and engineering.
4

SECTION-II
DEFINITIONS
1. “Academic Council” shall mean the Academic Council of the University, as defined in the
Statutes.
2. “Brief Syllabus” - This will refer to the broad topics that form part of a course.
3. “CGPA” shall mean the cumulative grade point average of a student.
4. Core Courses. These are the courses which are considered mandatory to be taken by
students at departmental level and must be passed by students to fulfill the degree
requirement. The courses need to be repeated by students in case of “fail” grade.
5. “Course” shall mean a subject or curricular component identified by a designated code
number and a title.
6. “Course Coordinator” shall mean a faculty member who shall have full responsibility for
the course, coordinating the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course,
including setting up of course syllabus, timeline for conduct of various component of the
course, Examinations and the award of grades. In case of any difficulty, the student is
expected to approach the course coordinator for advice and clarification.
7. “Curricula” This will refer to a program structure duly filled with titles and code numbers
of the courses in a program for a discipline.
8. “Degree” shall mean the; Bachelor’s degree viz. B. Tech and such other degrees of the
University as may be approved by the Executive Council.
9. “Detailed Course Outline” It shall comprise details such as Curricular Content, Course
Code, Course Title, Brief Syllabus, Course Learning Outcomes, Pre-requisites, if any, special
teaching methodology, Evaluation Methodology etc.
10. “Elective Courses” These courses may be subscribed by a student to have flexibility to
pursue their interest in different areas of engineering The elective courses are expected to
help a student to gain deeper knowledge and skills in specific/chosen areas in Engineering.
They may be interchanged and shall not count as essential for the award of degree so long
as credit and other requirements are fulfilled.
11. “Equivalent Course(s)” wherever made applicable, through regulations or laid down in the
curriculum for a given course an equivalent course(s) may be identified for any other course,
which is being discontinued, or not done as essential part of curriculum to be completed by a
student. Department may use the equivalent course(s) for meeting degree / pre-requisite
requirement in special circumstances.
12. “Executive Council” shall mean the Executive Council of the University, as defined in the
Act.
13. “Faculty Mentor” shall mean a faculty member nominated by the Department to advise /
counsel/mentor a student on matters related to the academic program, of the student. He/she
shall be responsible for acting as an interface between student, University and parents /
guardians, as required.
5

14. Foundation Courses. These courses are aimed at building the foundation in the Engineering
Programs and are common across all the streams with in the school. These courses are
designed for providing basic conceptual knowledge and analytical tools which are needed
in different disciplines of engineering programs. The courses need to be repeated by
students in case of “fail” grade.
15. “Grade Moderation Committee of the Department” shall mean the committee appointed
by the Vice Chancellor for each department to moderate grades awarded by the faculty
and course coordinators in different course(s) in a semester at a given level of a
curriculum. It shall normally be headed by the Head of the Department and consist of all
course coordinators as members.
16. “Grade Moderation Committee of the School
Shall mean the committee headed by the respective Deans of the schools and comprising
Head of Departments to moderate grades of various Departments in a school.
17. “Pre-requisite” shall mean course which a student has to pass before taking another
course which has it as a pre-requisite.
18. “Program” shall imply with reference to a degree programs or a degree program in a
particular discipline. e.g. B.Tech program or B.Tech -CSE, B.Tech-ECE etc.
19. “Program Structure” : To be used for defining semester wise credits and contact hours
(distribution allotted to various types of courses in a program) like Theory, Labs and
Seminars etc. mentioning their status as core or elective) .
20. “SGPA” shall mean the semester grade point average.
21. “Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University and / or from
outside the University, approved by the Vice Chancellor / Dean to supervise the student for
the designated academic activity.
22. “Student” Student shall mean a student registered for the undergraduate program for a
full time study leading to Bachelor’s Degree
23. “UG” shall mean Undergraduate.
6

SECTION-III
ORDINANCES
1. The University may introduce B.Tech programs in any of the streams specified under the
UGC Act 1956, and of such minimum duration as approved by the Executive Council. The
Executive Council may approve the introduction, temporarily suspending or phasing out a
program on the recommendation of the Academic Council either on its own or on the
initiative of Department(s).
2. The admissions to a B.Tech course shall be generally governed by the rules of the
UGC/AICTE or any other competent authority of the MHRD and shall be as notified in the
admission notification of the respective academic year.
3. The minimum entry qualification for admission to the UG students shall be such as may be
laid down in the regulations or specified by the Executive Council like Minimum
qualification for admission to the first year B.Tech shall be qualifying the Senior Secondary
School Certificate (10+2) examination. While deciding the admission procedure, the
University may lay down compulsory subjects in qualifying examination for admission for
various programs. A candidate who has qualified the polytechnic three-year diploma
course/B.E./B/Tech.- Ist year in related branch of engineering or three years B.Sc. degree
course from any recognized, Technical Board/ University or equivalent examination shall
also be eligible for admission to B.Tech. 2nd year through Lateral entry process and
minimum qualification for such Lateral Entry shall be as per the prevalent norms.
4. The date of initial registration for the UG program shall normally be the date on which the
student formally registers for the first time. This date shall be construed as the date of
joining the program for all intents and purposes.
5. A UG student shall be required to earn a minimum number of credits through various
academic components of a curriculum, as provided for in the regulations.
6. A UG student shall be required to complete all the requirements for the award of the
degree within such period as may be specified in the regulations. The award of the UG
degree to an eligible candidate shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down
in the regulations.
7. A student may be granted such scholarship /assistantship /stipend/contingency grant, etc.
as may be specified in accordance with the directions of the Executive Council from time to
time or regulations laid down for the same.
8. A student admitted to the programs shall be governed by the Rules, Regulations and
Procedures framed by the University and on matters of general discipline, and
implemented from time to time.
7

9. The students shall abide by the “Standing Orders for Students” issued by the University.
These standing orders shall deal with the discipline of the students in the Hostels,
Departments, and University premises or outside. The standing orders may also deal with
such other matters as are considered necessary for the general conduct of the students’
co-curricular and extra-curricular activities.
10. In exceptional circumstances the chairman of Executive Council may, on behalf of the
Council, approve amendments, modifications, Insertions or deletions of an Ordinance(s)
which in his/her opinion is necessary or expedient for the smooth running of the program:
provided all such changes are reported to the Council in its next meeting.
8

SECTION-IV
REGULATIONS FOR THE B.TECH. PROGRAMS
1. Short Title & Commencement
These regulations shall be called regulations for the UG programs in Engineering of the
University and shall come into force on such a date as the Executive Council may approve.
2. Duration
The duration of the UG programs leading to degrees of B. Tech shall be minimum four
years. However, the duration may be extended up-to six years from the date of initial
registration. The maximum duration of the programs excludes the period of withdrawal,
due to medical reasons. However, it shall include the period of rustication or any other
reason of discipline /academics e.g. suspension, willful absence by the student, not getting
promotion to the next class due to poor academic performance etc. Similarly, the
minimum duration of four years shall exclude the period of rustication for a semester or
more, or any other disciplinary reason e.g. suspension/willful absence by the student in a
semester etc. Under such circumstances the student shall attend the University for an
additional semester or more time, as equated to period of absence/suspension.
3. Starting or Phasing out of Program
The University may offer such Undergraduate programs in engineering leading to award of
Bachelor’s degrees of B Tech, as per nomenclature laid by the UGC regulations on the
subject and as may be approved by the Executive Council. The maximum duration of each
program shall be specified and may be altered in accordance with the recommendations of
the Academic Council .A program may be phased out on recommendations of the
Academic Council and approval of the Executive Council ,on account of continuous low
registration in the program or any other justifiable reason like becoming obsolete etc.
Similarly the Executive Council may approve starting of a new program or modifying the
existing one on the recommendations of the Academic Council
4. Admissions
Admission to all UG programs shall be made as per procedure to be approved by the
chairman, Executive Council and may be reviewed periodically as required. Fee structure,
refund policy, total number of seats, reservation policy, and special category seats, e.g.
sponsored seats, or direct entry into II year through lateral entry scheme etc. shall be
defined in the admission procedure.
5. Semester System
The B Tech academic programs in the University shall be based on Semester System;
namely, Spring (Even) and Fall (Odd) Semesters, in an academic year. Winter and summer
vacations shall be allowed, as applicable. In addition, few courses may be offered during
the vacations, as may be provided in the regulations. The courses whether offered in
regular semester or the summer /winter semester, shall be evaluated as per the policy and
procedure laid down.
9

6. Semester Duration
A semester will be of approximately 16-18 weeks duration. Of these, about 14 weeks will
be available for actual instructions. Thus a 3-1-2 (5) credit course shall have 42 hours of
Lectures, 14 tutorials and 28 hours of practical work.
7. Courses
The UG program shall comprise following type of courses
(i) Foundation and Core Courses. These are compulsory courses and mandatory to
clear/pass for award of degree.
(ii) Elective Courses. These courses are offered to augment the studies in specific fields.
They may be interchanged.
(iii) Courses of special nature (like Corporate Internship ,Preparatory English Courses, Audit
Courses, Self-Study Courses, Seminars, Term papers and Capstone Projects) etc.
7.1 Corporate Internship
Corporate Internship is a non-credit core course, to be done typically during the summer
vacations. A student should undergo corporate internship for 4-6 weeks, starting from year
2, preferably in an industry or R & D institutions in India. Internship in an academic
institution is not permitted. Internship of 3rd year shall be graded and essential part of the
degree requirement.
It is the responsibility of the placement cell/career advancement services to arrange for
internship for all the students. In the beginning of each academic session, placement
cell/career services will prepare a program wise list of potential training organizations.
These organizations will be approached by the placement cell/career services/external
relations department with a request to provide training seats. Consolidated lists of training
offers will be made available to the eligible students in the beginning of spring (Even)
semester of the session. If a student is interested in making his/her own arrangement for
the training seat, he/she will need to have the training organization approved by routing
the application to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) for
approval.
The students will be required to get their training activity and results reviewed by
organization in which they have attended the training and obtain comments on the Diary
provided by the placement cell/career services/external relations department. The diary
shall be printed under University arrangement and provided to the students.
Each Department shall nominate internship coordinator from amongst the faculty members.
The department will scrutinize the training report and the certificate issued by the corporate
and will award a satisfactory/unsatisfactory grade, which must be sent to the Registry within
one month of commencement of next semester. In case the training is considered to be
unsatisfactory, a Unsatisfactory’ grade will be awarded and the student shall have to
undergo fresh industrial training in part or full duration as decided by the Dean (SEAS). The
industrial training, submission of training report and obtaining satisfactory grade is
mandatory requirement for award of B. Tech degree.
10

7.2 Preparatory English Course
Students who score less than 65% in English in class 10+2 at time of admission will be
prescribed a preparatory English Course in the first semester. It will be a regular course and
may be conducted as an Audit Course. The student who is registered for the course is required
to get a valid pass grade (NP) in this course, in order to be eligible for graduation.
7.3 Audit Courses
Audit facility is open to all students. A student will be permitted to do limited number of
audit courses over the above the graduation requirements. Courses up to maximum of 12
credits from the elective courses in any category may be completed on audit basis. No
credits are given for such courses towards degree requirements. However, students shall
be awarded NP (Pass) or NF (audit fail) grades which shall be endorsed in the grade sheet.
7.4 Capstone Project
A capstone project shall be a multifaceted assignment that serves as a culminating
academic and intellectual experience for students, typically during their final year at the
University. Capstone projects may take a wide variety of forms, but they shall be
Year/Semester long investigative projects that culminate in a final product, presentation,
or performance .In projects under the guidance of a faculty member, a final year student is
required to do some innovative work with application of knowledge earned while
undergoing various courses and labs in the earlier years. The student is expected to do
literature survey and carry out development and/or experimentation. Through the project
work the student has to exhibit both the analytical and practical skills. The student will
have to do his/her project under the guidance of the faculty member from the same
department unless specifically permitted by the Head of the Department for alternate
arrangements.
The Project shall be treated as a core course. Depending upon the option to be exercised
by the student before commencement of 7th semester, a decision will be taken regarding
the duration and conduct of project. Student may have three options to do the final
semester i.e (i) To do final semester in the University itself (ii) to do final semester in
collaborating Universities/Institutes abroad (iii) to undertake Internship outside University
in India. In case of option 1, the project may be spread over two regular semesters and in
such cases shall comprise Part 1 and Part 2. The allocation of projects, faculty supervisor,
and tentative plan of work and evaluation schedule shall invariably be notified in separate
instructions.
In case of two part project, the Part 2 of the project is expected to be continuation of Part
1 and shall invariably be conducted in pre-final semesters and final (7th & 8th) respectively.
Therefore, a student must obtain a satisfactory progress report in Project Part 1, in order
to be eligible for registering for Part 2. In case a student successfully completes the laid
down requirements for part-1, he/she will accrue the credits and grade as laid down for
the pre-final semester and he/she will be registered for the following regular semester. In
11

case a student gets F grade, he/she shall have to appear in the same in final semester and
only then do the part-2.
In case of a single project in 8th semester, it shall be a comprehensive project to be
completed in one semester.
7.5 Self-Study Course / Term Paper
A self-study course or term paper may be offered under special circumstances, from a list
of regular courses of study, to a student in his/her final Semester when he/she is short by a
maximum of 6 earned credits to become eligible for the degree. This course shall be
offered only if approved by the Vice Chancellor, on the recommendation of the Dean,
(SEAS).These courses shall be offered in an additional semester after the program, but for
a limited duration of 4-6 weeks.
7.6 Seminar
Seminar is a course requirement wherein under the guidance of a faculty member a
student is expected to do an in depth study in a specialized area by doing literature survey,
understanding different aspects of the problem and arriving at a status report in that area.
While doing a seminar, the student is expected to learn investigation methodologies, study
relevant research papers, correlate work of various authors/researchers critically, study
concepts, techniques, prevailing results etc., analyze it and present a seminar report. It is
mandatory to give a seminar presentation before a panel constituted for the purpose. The
grading is done on the basis of the depth of the work done, understanding of the problem,
report and presentation by the student concerned.
8. Registration
8.1 Every student shall register for the courses that he/she wants to study for earning credits
and his/her name will appear in the roll list of each such course. No credit shall be given if
a student attends a course for which he or she is not registered. The performance of a
student in all courses, for which he/she has registered, shall be included in his/her grade
card.
8.2 Registration of courses to be taken in a particular Semester shall be done according to
specific schedule announced by the Registry. In-absentia registration shall not be allowed.
Under special circumstances, the students may be allowed late registration by the Dean
SEAS, till a specified date, by paying a late fee fixed by the University along with other
necessary fees. Normally, late registration beyond 7 days shall not be allowed without
sanction from the Vice Chancellor.
8.3 Those students who join UG programs in first year shall complete the registration
procedure on a specific registration date(s), prior to the commencement of their classes.
8.4 Credit Restriction. Subject to restriction that may be imposed by the course structure,
curricula or other factors, a student may normally register for a minimum of 15 credits and
a maximum of 25 credits. But on the recommendation of the HoD of the Department,
Dean (SEAS) may allow a student to register for a maximum of 28-30 credits, in not more
12

than two semesters, during the entire program for fulfilling the requirements of minimum
earned credits. However students under load restriction or load monitoring criteria shall
be governed by the rules for such students. University may however review these
restrictions under sanction of the Vice Chancellor in exceptional cases.
8.5 Registration Methodology for the Courses in various Semesters, depending upon slots
availability.
Priority-1. Foundation/ Core Courses of the semester.
Priority-2. Other electives on offer as per the curricula structure.
It shall be responsibility of the student to plan and register for the backlog courses as and
when offered.
The time table shall be drawn based on the core and electives courses offered during the
semester. Back log courses shall be registered in free slots available in the time table
under responsibility of student under guidance of faculty mentor. The time table shall be
announced well before the registration dates so that students are able to make conscious
choices after taking advice from the faculty mentors
8.5.1 A student may however, register for lesser courses than the total credits available in the
semester in the range of 15 to 25 except where additional credits are allowed.
8.5.2 Pre requisites: A student shall not be permitted to register for a course unless he/she
passes the course which is a pre-requisite to that course, if specified.
8.6 Add / Drop of Courses:
A student shall have the option to add-on or delete courses from the list of registered
courses in a semester on or before a date notified in the Academic Calendar or as laid
down in the instructions.
(i) A student may also be allowed to withdraw from a course up to two weeks after the
commencement of the Semester. For this purpose, the student has to submit his/her
application on a prescribed form, available in the Academic Section of the University
after taking approvals from the HoD of the department whose course is being
dropped and also HoD of department whose course is sought to be added . However,
no benefit of attendance shall be allowed to the student for having missed the
classes for two weeks.
(ii) At the time of fee payment and before commencement of the semester, the
Registrar shall give each student a registration record, which shall be the official
record of the courses registered. Students must ensure correctness of same as they
shall be awarded grades the in registered courses, irrespective of his/her claim to
have registered or not registered for the course.
(iii) Faculty Mentor: At the time of completing the registration form or any subsequent
change in the registration, every student shall consult his/her faculty
adviser/nominated mentor who shall be appointed by the Departments. The
minimum and the maximum numbers of total credits in the context of his/her past
performance, backlog of courses, GPA and individual interest should be explained to
the students.
13

8.7 Minimum Number of Students to be Registered in a Course:
8.7.1 An undergraduate elective course shall run only if there is a minimum registration of 10
students in that course. However, Vice Chancellor may allow variation to this rule.
8.7.2 Managing other variables
(i) Registration for backlog foundation/ core subjects when the number of students is
less than 5 and where the course(s) are not on offer in the regular ongoing semester,
the students may be allowed, within the credit limits purely at the discretion of the
Vice-Chancellor based on the recommendations of Dean, SEAS.
(ii) Such students would be allotted Tutor(s) for the subject(s) with whom they will be
provided minimum one contact hour per week.
(iii) Under the guidance of the assigned Tutor(s), they will carry out the assignment and
studies.
(iv) Evaluation of such courses like written Examinations, Lab examinations and TA
component will be conducted as per the normal weightages for the subject.
9. Course Coordinator
Every course offered shall be coordinated by a Course Coordinator appointed by the Head
of the Department. The Course coordinator shall have full responsibility for the course. He
/She shall coordinate the work of other faculty member(s) involved in that course in
respect of their participation in various activities related to the course including teaching,
attendance, evaluation through written tests, quizzes, assignments, as may be laid out in
detailed course outline document , and the award of the grades.
Course Coordinators shall also be required to prepare and issue/upload on LMS, the
detailed course outline document / syllabi to the students, before the commencement of
semester. The students may approach course coordinator for any assistance.
10. Course Codes
Each course offered by the University shall be identified by a course code. The course
codes shall be allocated by the Registrar’s Office/or authority so designated.
11. Detailed Course Outline At the beginning of each semester, the course
coordinator/teacher concerned will circulate a detailed course outline document of the
course on the first day of the start of the semester to motivate the students. It will
comprise the following:
(i) Title
(ii) Course Code
(iii) Pre-requisites
(iv) Contact Hours (L-T-P) and credits
(v) Objective(s)
(vi) Learning Outcomes
(vii) Course Outline
14

(viii) Equivalent course – if any.
(ix) Methodology/Conduct of Course/Detailed Course Plan.
(x) Evaluation Scheme
(xi) Text and reference books
Further, these details shall also be provided /available on the Learning Management
System for reference by the students.
12. Credit System
The prominent features of the credit system are the processes of continuous evaluation of
a student’s performance, and the flexibility to allow the students to progress at a pace
suited to individual ability and convenience, subject to the regulations of credit
requirements.
Each course, except a few special courses, has a certain number of credits assigned to it
depending upon its lecture, tutorial and/or laboratory contact hours in a week. A member
of the faculty, called the Course Coordinator, coordinates each course. He/she has the full
responsibility for coordinating the course, coordinating the work of other members of the
faculty involved in that course, holding the tests and awarding the grades. In case of any
difficulty, the student is expected to approach the course coordinator for advice and
clarification.
A letter grade, corresponding to specified number of grade points, is awarded in each
course for which a student is registered. On obtaining a pass grade, the student
accumulates the course credits as earned credits. A student’s performance is measured by
the number of credits that he/she has earned and by the weighted grade point average. A
minimum number of credits should be acquired in order to qualify for the programs.
13. Credit Assignment
Lectures/Tutorials: One lecture/tutorial hour per week per semester is assigned one
credit.
Practical’s: One laboratory hour per week per semester is assigned half credit.
However, some courses may be of preparatory nature and have half the credit weightage
of a normal course while a few courses are without credit and are referred to as noncredit
(NC) courses.
14. Earned Credits (EC)
The credits assigned to a course in which a student has obtained ‘D’ (minimum passing
grade) or a higher grade will be counted as credits earned by him/her. Any course in which
a student has obtained F, W or NF grade will not be counted towards his/her earned
credits.
15

15. Examination /Evaluation System
The evaluation system of the University shall be oriented to encourage the academic
qualities listed above. The University follows a continuous evaluation policy. This is to train
the student to put in sustained and disciplined work over the entire period of study.
15.1 Division of marks
Each course shall be evaluated out of some total of 100 Marks. Faculty may set the papers
out of any marks but the overall weightage shall be in pre-defined percentage which the
concerned faculty/course coordination shall announce in the first class of the semester
and also load on the LMS.
As a general guideline, there shall be three written examinations i.e Minor M1 and M2
and an end term examination for Theory courses. However, choice is left to the individual
teachers. The maximum weightage for the end term examination shall not exceed 40%.
Teachers Assessment (TA) may be based on Assignments, Quizzes, Homework, regularity in
attendance and Tutorials etc awarded by the Course Coordinator/respective teacher.
Methodology for evaluation of Lab component may include day to day work, lab records,
quantity/quality of work and Viva/Seminar/Practical as may be decided.
Similar division of marks may be created for special courses like Capstone Projects,
seminars; term papers etc. but same shall also be pre-defined.
15.2 Grading System for Courses:
(i) Students obtaining grades A to D shall be declared pass. Students failing to meet the
minimum cut off marks in the subject will be awarded F grade.
(ii) The grades shall be decided on the aggregate of evaluation of all the components as
per defined weightage like:-
Regular Courses
(a) Three written tests, M-1, M-2, End Semester Examination or as conducted.
(b) Teachers Assessment to include; Assignments Quizzes, homework, tutorials and
regularly in attendance etc. (TA).
(c) Practical (P).
Projects
The grades shall be decided on the aggregate of evaluation of all the components as
would be pre-defined.
(iii) The grading shall be based on relative grading/absolute point’s method depending
upon the class strength and as decided by the coordinator for the course.
16

15.3 Grading for failing to meet Attendance Requirement.
(i) A student is required to attend all the classes.
(ii) If the attendance profile of a student is unsatisfactory (as given in the rules in
subsequent papagraphs), he/she will be debarred. Any student, who has been
awarded F grade because of being debarred due to attendance shortage, shall not be
allowed to take the supplementary Examination. The student shall have to register
for the course in the regular semester when offered as a back log course.
16. Make Up Examinations(For M1 and M2 only)
A student may apply for a makeup examination where he/she is not able to attend the
examination schedule due to reasons of personal medical condition or compassionate
reason like death of a very close relative. No other contingencies are acceptable. Except in
case of medical emergency, a student needs to seek advance approval from appropriate
authority before missing the Examination. Following rules shall govern the makeup
examinations:
16.1 Theory Courses.
(i) A student missing M1 & M2 Examination only shall be required to take a make-up
Examination. No makeup examination is allowed for end semester examination and
policy for same is laid down separately
(ii) The students must put-up the request for make-up Examination along with the
medical documents to prove the genuineness of the case (for having missed either
the M1 or M2 Examination) within 5 days of last date of such Examination.
(iii) The students who miss the Examination due to medical reason must attach the
opinion of the University Medical Officer (UMO) after showing all medical documents
to him/her.
(iv) The genuineness shall be reviewed and approved by the Vice Chancellor, whose
decision shall be final.
(v) The make-up Examination shall be held between M2 & End Semester Examination
and the dates shall be notified in the academic calendar.
(vi) Student can take a make-up Examination in one of the papers only (either M1 or M2).
(vii) Should the student miss both M1 & M2 Examination (even for genuine reason) then
marks will be allotted as below:
(a) M1 = zero (0)
(b) M2 = as obtained in the make-up test
(viii) In case a student misses the make-up Examination also, then no further chance will
be provided.
(ix) The duration of Examination shall be as decided by the Faculty/course coordinator.
17

(x) Genuine approved cases shall be notified by the Registrar (after each Examination i.e.
M1/M2 based on the requests received) and only such students shall be allowed to
take make-up Examination in the subjects where approval has been granted.
(xi) The date sheet will be taken out by the Registrar/controller of Examination.
16.2 Makeup of End Semester Examination
It is mandatory to appear the end semester major examination to obtain any grade for a
course. A student who missies the end semester major examination shall follow a similar
procedure as for MI and M2 examination, to obtain approval of the Vice Chancellor to
prove genuine-ness of the case. The student whose case is approved as genuine shall be
awarded “I” GRADE in the semester results in the given subject. The student shall be
allowed to appear in the supplementary examination of the said subject. However, the
grades shall be worked out by computing the marks obtained by students in M1, M2, TA,
Lab and supplementary examination (equated to the weightage of end semester major
examination). The total marks shall be compared with the marks of the class as in the
regular semester for award of grade.
16.3 Missing Component exam of Laboratories/Projects
If a student misses out the any component of examinations or the events for the Labs/
projects/ viva/scheduled examination which is part of teachers assessment on specified
dates they must put up the request, to the HoD for Lab and supervisor for Project courses
to allot alternate date(s). The requests shall be put up by the HoDs/ supervisors to the
Dean SEAS, who shall verify the case and provide alternate date(s), if considered genuine.
Dean may seek views from the UMO in cases of medical reasons. The decision of Dean
shall be final.
16.4 Makeup of End Semester Viva of Projects
It is mandatory to appear in the final Viva examination to obtain any grade for a project
course In case of student missing the same for genuine reasons; similar method as given
for written examination of theory courses shall be followed.
16.5 Procedure to be adopted by students in case of missing any of the specified
Examination(s).
Following procedure shall be adopted for establishing genuineness of the case.
(A) Action by the student (Medical Cases)
(i) They should report absence from the Examination(s) by fastest possible means
to the Registrar/controller of Examination. It could be email or written
communication by speed post or sent by hand through any means. In case of
Hosteller’s, if a student falls sick while residing in the hostel, he/she should seek
advice of the University Medical Officer.
(ii) The said report should preferably be sent prior to the Examination, but not
later than 5 days after the last date of the said Examination.
18

(iii) The student should on rejoining;
(a) Report to the University Medical Officer with complete medical documents
to include referral/Prescription slip of the doctor specifically indicating the
disease and medicine prescribed, investigation/Lab reports and discharge
slip in case of admission should be provided,
(b) Obtain his/her views on the genuineness of the case on the proforma
available with the Medical Officer and submit the documents along with the
proforma with remarks of the University Medical Officer to the
Registrar/controller of Examination, not later than 5 days after the last date
of Examination.
(iv) In case delay beyond 5 days is anticipated the student should arrange for the
medical documents to be sent to the University Medical Officer by hand
through a friend / relative etc. and get the said genuineness proforma filled-up
and deposit the same with the Registrar/controller of Examination.
(v) No request later than 5 days after the last date of Examination shall be
accepted for reasons of ignorance or any other reasons.
(B) Action by students (any other reason)
In case the student has to miss Examination due to genuine reason other than
medical, prior written sanction of Vice Chancellor and in his absence Dean (SEAS) is
mandatory. No post facto requests shall be accepted in any case. The approval
should be deposited with the Registrar /Controller of Examination before the
Examination.
(C) Approving genuineness in each case is prerogative of the Vice Chancellor and
student shall have no right to appeal on the same. Therefore student should not
make an assumption that reporting sick and obtaining the slip for rest etc. from the
Medical Authorities including University Medical Officer is an adequate reason to
exempt them from the examination.
17. Supplementary Examination
17.1 The supplementary examinations shall be held for each commiserating semester in
January for Fall (Odd) and June/July for Spring (Even) respectively. The preparatory /
coaching classes of 15 days prior to supplementary Examination may be held at the
discretion of the University. A student is entitled to appear in Supplementary Examinations
only once, for a subject i.e. immediately succeeding the semester in which fail grade is
incurred.
17.2 Eligibility Students with ‘F’ grade (Except debarred cases either due to attendance or
indulging in UFM) are eligible to appear in the Supplementary Examination.
19

17.3 Conduct
(i) Supplementary Examinations shall be held twice in an Academic Session. For the
spring (odd) semester it, shall be held in January and for the fall (Even) Semester, in
between June- July. The dates shall be announced in the Academic Calendar.
(ii) The Supplementary Examination shall be of the same duration as end term
examination.
(iii) The Supplementary Examinations will cover, the entire syllabus, covered in the
semester.
17.4 Grading in supplementary Exam.
Grade shall be determined on the basis of marks obtained by the students in the
Supplementary Examination of the subject only. The maximum grade awarded for the
supplementary Examination shall be up to C+ (grades comprising F, D, D+, C-, C and C+).
Those students who get F grade will have to register afresh in the courses, whenever next
available in the regular semester. The students who take supplementary examination as
make up for the end semester major examination shall be awarded regular grades as out
lined in 16.2 above.
17.5 Supplementary for Projects. There shall be no supplementary examinations for the
projects, except make up examination for missing the final viva as per rules outlined
above.
17.6 Treatment of failed students
If a student fails in the Supplementary Examination, he/she shall have to re-register for the
subject, in the immediate following corresponding regular semester, where the subject is
on offer.
18 Provision for Summer Term
To assist the students in clearing the backlog courses, an additional Summer Term may be
run by the University, if required, as per the details below.
(i) Parameters:
(a) Duration - Normally 5-6 weeks
(b) Registration for summer courses - Schedule shall be
announced by Registrar in
consultation with Dean.
(c) Examinations and Marks - Maximum of two written
examination, TA and Lab as
required
(d) Maximum number of courses allowed to be registered by a student - 2
(e) When a student registers for the project course he/she is not entitled to
register for any other course.
20

(f) Student awarded fail grade or debarred from appearing in end semester
examination in spring (Even) Semester, will also be eligible to opt for Summer
Term.
(g) Due to limited duration of summer semester, Late registration shall be allowed
up to maximum of 2 days with approval of Dean
(h) Courses offered initially for the summer term may be withdrawn at the
discretion of the University, if the registration in the course is less than 5
students up to 3 days prior to start of the summer term.
(i) The student can register only for the courses which are on offer. The courses
shall be decided by the Dean (SEAS) in consultation with HoDs and then
notified well in advance.
(j) Attendance for registered students is mandatory. Attendance rules, as for
normal semester, shall apply for the summer semester also. No deviations in
this regard shall be made
(k) Fee structure shall be notified as approved by the management.
19. General Rules: Examinations
(a) Showing the Answer Scripts. The answer scripts of all written Examinations i.e. M-1,
M-2, end semester examination or any other written work conducted by a teacher
shall be shown to the students. Students desirous of seeing the marked answer
scripts of end Semester Examination, has to ensure their presence before results are
declared, as per dates notified in the Academic Calendar.
(b) Marks/Answer Sheets of all other tests shall also be shared with the students and
thus, there shall be no scrutiny of grades. However, before the grades are forwarded
to Registrar/Controller of Examination, they should be displayed provisionally and
time given to students, to discuss the same with respective course
coordinators/faculty. Changes, if any due to computational errors only, should be
incorporated only after approval of Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee of the
University before final results are forwarded to the Registrar/Controller of
Examination.
(c) No appeal shall be accepted for scrutiny of grades.
(d) Examination Fee for Supplementary. A fee of Rs.1000/- per course or as decided by
the Management from time to time will be charged from the students.
20 Grading System
20.1 Letter Grades which shall be considered/ awarded based on students marks are as
below:
Letter Grade A A- B+ B B- C+ C C- D+ D F
Grade Point 4 3.67 3.33 3 2.67 2.33 2 1.67 1.33 1 0
21

20.2 Award of Grades
Students obtaining grades A to D shall be declared pass. Students failing in subject will be
awarded F grade. The grades for courses shall be decided on the aggregate marks of all
the components of evaluation like written tests, (M-1, M-2 and, end semester
examination).Teachers Assessment comprising Assignments Quizzes, homework, tutorials
and regularly in attendance etc. (TA) and Practical’s which shall be evaluated similarly as
per the procedure outlined.
20.3 General Guidelines for the Award of Grades
The following are the general guidelines for the award of grades:
(i) All evaluations of different components of a course shall be done in marks for each
student.
(ii) The marks of each component of evaluation shall be reduced to the approved
weightage and then each component added to get total marks on a 100-points scale.
The rounding off shall be done on the higher side.
(iii) The Grades may be awarded by any of the methods as approved by the Academic
Council i.e based on the natural cut off marks in case of smaller classes or statistical
method of relative grading in case larger class. The grade boundaries as decided with
in the school may be marginally adjusted by the course coordinators. However the
reason for same may be justified during the grade moderation committee meetings.
(iv) A grade shall not be awarded for percentage of marks less than 80% under any
circumstances. Course coordinators may lay down maximum % of students being
awarded A grade.
(v) The overall distribution of different grades shall be as indicated in the statistical
distribution to the extent possible.
(vi) The provisional grades shall be awarded by the course coordinator. The same shall
be moderated by Grade Moderation Committee at Department and School level.
(vii) Provisional grades awarded shall be displayed on the notice board of the
Department. After giving time to students to peruse the same, and carrying out
adjustment of computational errors, if any, the final grades shall be communicated
to the Registrar/controller of examination within specified time for publication.
(viii) The grades should be finalized within time announced in the Academic Calendar. The
course coordinator shall have full responsibility for this purpose.
22

20.4 Structure of Grading of Academic Performance
The following shall be the structure of grading for academic performance of the students:
Grade Grade Point(s) Description of performance
A 4 Excellent - Exceptional Achievement
A- 3.67
B+ 3.33
B 3 Extensive Achievement/very Good/Good
B- 2.67
C+ 2.33
C 2 Satisfactory- Acceptable Achievement/
Fair Performance
C- 1.67
D+ 1.33 Poor, Minimal Achievements
D 1.00 Credit for the course is earned.
A student may have difficulty in a course
for which this course was a prerequisite.
F 0 Very Poor
Credit is not earned and the course will
not satisfy any requirements.
The course has to be repeated.
NP - Audit Pass
NF - Audit Fail
W - Withdrawal
X - Continued Project
‘I’ - Incomplete
20.5 Description of Grades
A, A (-) Grades
These grades stand for Excellent/Exceptional achievement. The minimum marks for award
of an ‘A’ grade shall be 80%. However, individual course coordinators with approval of
Chairman, Grade Monitoring Committee may set higher individual marks requirement.
23

B+, B, B (-) Grades
These grades denote an extensive performance ranging from Very Good to good.
C , C, C- Grades
+
These grades denote satisfactory/ Acceptable Achievement/ Fair Performance which shall
fetch the credits for the course
D+, D Grade
The ‘D+’, D grades stands for marginal performance; i.e. it is the minimum passing grade in
any course. The minimum marks for award of ‘D’ grade shall be 33% However, individual
course coordinators may set different individual marks requirement after approval of
Chairman, Grade Monitoring Committee.
F Grade
The ‘F’ grade denotes a very poor performance, i.e. failing a course. ‘F’ grade is also
awarded in case of poor attendance (see Attendance Rules). A student has to repeat all
compulsory foundational/core courses in which she/he obtains ‘F’ grade, until a passing
grade is obtained. For the other (elective) courses in which ‘F’ grade have been obtained,
the student may take the same course or any other course from the same category. No
Grade points are awarded. However, the credits of such courses shall be used as
denominator for calculation of GPA or CGPA.
NP and NF Grades
These grades are awarded in a course which a student opts to audit. Applications for the
Audit Course are allowed during the first two weeks of a semester. The audit pass (NP)
grade is awarded, if minimum marks equivalent to ‘D’ grade are obtained in that course
and attendance is above 75% in the classes. If either of these requirements is not fulfilled,
the audit fail (NF) grade is awarded. The grades obtained in audit courses are not
considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA.
W Grade
The W grade is awarded to a student if he/she is allowed to withdraw for an entire
Semester only if he/she has been on authorized absence from the University on medical
grounds for a period exceeding five weeks.
X Grade
The ‘X’ grade is awarded for incomplete project work, at the end of a semester.
Subsequently, it is converted into a regular grade upon completion of the project work and
its evaluation.
‘I” Grade
The ‘I “grade is awarded when the student is allowed additional opportunity like make up
Examination etc. based on which the grade is to be decided along with other components
of the evaluation during the semester
24

An incomplete grade of "I" may be given when an unforeseen emergency prevents a
student from completing the work in a course. The "I" must be converted to a
performance grade (A to F) within 90 days after the first day of classes in the subsequent
regular semester. If the work is not completed after 90 days, the "I" is converted to a
performance grade, usually an "F".
21. Grade Moderation
21.1 The Grade Moderation Committee of the Department for the courses shall comprise
respective HODs and the course coordinators / teachers, connected with the course. This
committee shall be responsible for adherence to the guidelines for the award of grades as
decided from time to time. The Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee with the help of
course coordinator(s) shall be responsible for the display of provisional grades in the
Department after the same are moderated at the school level and for forwarding the final
grades to the Registrar/controller of Examination. The Chairman, Grade Moderation
Committee shall also retain the record copies of the marks and the grades along with the
statistical parameters for all the courses moderated and forward a copy of the same to the
Registrar/controller of Examination.
22.2 The Chairman, Grade Moderation Committee of the Departments and Dean (SEAS) shall
finally moderate the grades at the School level, before displaying to the student and
finalizing the same.
22.3 The remarks for discipline shall be moderated by the discipline committee constituted by
the Vice Chancellor, and shall follow the laid down parameters for such purpose.
22 Conversion of grades into percentages
The performance of the student is measured in terms of CGPA (on a 4 point scale)..
However, on request from the Indian Industry and oversees University’s querying on
percentage obtained by students, a mathematical formula for conversion of GPAs to
equivalent percentage may adopted and same be approved by the Academic council of the
University.
23 Evaluation of Academic Performance
23.1 The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indices, viz., the Grade
Point Average (GPA) in the first semester (which is the Grade Point Average for a semester)
and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the
completed semesters at any point in time.
Grade Point Average (GPA)
The GPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses,
registered for in the semester and shall be reflected in the semester grade sheet. It is
calculated as below.
(a) Multiply the credits by the points assigned to the grade concerned in the table
above.
(b) Add the total grade points for all the registered courses of the semester.
(c) Divide the total grade points by the total number of registered credits.
25

23.2 The overall Grade of a student in the program of study upto the end of a particular
Semester shall be called Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). The total grade points
scored in different semesters are added up and divided by the total number of registered
credits till then. It indicates the Cumulative Grade Point Average and shall be reflected in
the grade sheets from Semester-2 onwards.
An Example of these calculations is given below:
I Semester
Course Course Grade Earned Grade Points
No. Credits Awarded Credits Points Secured
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
MAXXXN 5 C+ 5 2.33 11.65
CSXXXM 4 C 4 2 8
PHXXXN 4 A 4 4 16
PHXXXP 1.5 B+ 1.5 3.33 4.99
MEXXXN 4 F 0 0 0
AMXXXN 4 B- 4 2.67 10.68
Credits registered in the I Semester (total of column 2) = 22.5
Earned Credits in the I Semester (total of column 4) = 18.5
Points secured in the I Semester (total of column 6) = 51.32
GPA (I Semester) = (51.32 / 22.5) = 2.28
CGPA (At the end of I Semester) = Not Applicable
II Semester
Course Course Grade Earned Grade Points
No. Credits Awarded Credits Points Secured
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
MAXXXN 5 D+ 5 1.33 6.65
EEXXXN 5 F 0 0 00
CYXXXN 4 B- 4 2.67 10.68
CYXXXP 1.5 C+ 1.5 2.33 3.49
MEXXXN 4 A 4 4 16
HUXXXN 0 NP 0 0 00
26

Credits registered in the II Semester (total of column 2) = 19.5
Earned Credits in the II Semester (total of column 4) = 14.5
Points secured in the II Semester (total of column 6) = 36.82
GPA (II Semester) = (36.82/19.5) = 1.88
CGPA (at the end of I Year) = (51.32 + 36.82) / (22.5 + 19.5) = 2.09
24 Academic Performance Monitoring and Load Restriction
HOD / Faculty mentors should monitor the academic performance of students at the end
of each semester and may put him on load restriction, if required.
24.1 Identification of Students for Load Restriction
At the end of each semester, students will be identified by the following criteria for
restricted load:
(i) If cumulative earned credits falls below half the number of credits registered
(ii) If CGPA falls to 2 or less and GPA is less than 2.33.
A student thus identified, will not be permitted to register for more than 21 credits in a
semester. In rare cases, Dean (SEAS) may permit relaxation of this limit.
24.2 Identification of Students for Monitoring
At the end of each semester, students will be identified by the following criteria for
monitoring of their academic performance and appropriate advice:
(i) GPA of a student failing 2 points below that of the previous semester; or
(ii) Students whose load has been restricted.
(iii) Students who had been debarred because of shortage of Attendance.
(iv) Any case of indifferent performance, during the course of semester.
24.3 Withdrawal of Registration due to Unsatisfactory Academic Performance
While reviewing the academic performance of weak students HOD/ Faculty mentor/
Counsellor may also recommend through Deans, withdrawal of registration if a student
fails to satisfy the minimum academic criteria considered essential for continuation with
the program. It is not mandatory that a student should have been put under monitoring /
probation, before terminating the registration. Vice chancellor shall review each case and
take decision on each case based on the merits of each case.
If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then his/her credits
earned and semesters registered will not be carried over. The re-start will be indicated on
the transcript. The re-start will be permitted only once.
In subsequent years, the progress shall be viewed in relation to feasibility of completing
the degree requirements in the balance maximum time.
27

25 Conditions for Pass and Progression. Subject to clause 24.3 a student would be allowed to
continue with the program with following preconditions:
(i) Maximum duration permitted for completion of B.Tech program is six years.
(ii) No relaxation in credit limit beyond 28 credits will be allowed for registration.
(iii) No special consideration shall be given to the student for clearing the back log
courses and student himself/herself shall be responsible for planning registration
and clearing the same
26 Conditions for Award of a Degree
(i) Earning a minimum credits as specified in the curriculum of respective program. In
case of lateral entry students (direct entry into second year) the minimum credits
shall be equivalent to total credits for the program less the credits of first year. This
excludes the credits required to be obtained by the student of lateral entry, who is
advised to take some equivalence courses.
(ii) Should complete the requirements of the Degree in maximum of six years. Semester
withdrawals due to medical reasons are not counted in six years. However forced
withdrawal of students e.g. rustication or expulsion or nonattendance by student
due to any other reasons, shall count in the maximum period of six years and
minimum period of four years.
(iii) Successfully completing the Corporate Internship.
(iv) Should have cleared all the foundational and core courses of the programs. In case of
lateral entry students (direct entry into second year) the student should have
completed the foundational/core courses/equivalent courses, as approved at the
time of admission in the programs.
27 Attendance Requirements
27.1 Attendance Rules
(i) All undergraduate students are expected to be present in every lecture, tutorial,
practical or project interaction sessions scheduled for them.
(ii) A student must have a minimum attendance of 75% in a course during a semester, in
lectures, tutorials or practical’s taken together (as applicable). A student with less
than 75 % attendance in a course will be awarded ‘F’ grade in that course
irrespective of his/her performance in the tests during the semester. The Course
Coordinator while awarding the grades will take into account the consolidated
attendance record for the whole semester (Lectures, Tutorials and Labs).
(iii) A student should meet the above attendance requirement irrespective of the
number of days; he/she is on medical and/or other leave for any reason,
whatsoever.
28

(iv) In order to maintain the attendance record of a particular course, a roll call shall be
taken in every scheduled lecture, tutorial and practical class. Teacher may device any
other method of taking attendance
(v) For the purpose of attendance, every scheduled class will be counted as one unit
irrespective of the number of contact hours.
(vi) A relaxation of up to 10% may be given on the following special grounds:
(a) Any continuous illness of two weeks or more supported by a proper medical
certificate. Smaller absence for shorter duration e.g. few days at a time due to
medical reasons shall not count towards this relaxation.
(b) The student being deputed to represent the University with the prior approval
of the Dean (SEAS).
(c) Any special personal reason, on the recommendation of the Dean (SEAS) and
approval of the Vice Chancellor.
27.2 Semester Withdrawal in Medical Cases
A student who has been absent from classes on the basis of medical advice after due
approval of the Dean (SEAS) / Vice Chancellor and has submitted authentic medical record
may be permitted to withdraw from the semester. Further if a student is absent from the
classes on account of certified genuine medical reasons for duration of five weeks or more
will be asked to withdraw from the semester compulsorily. W grade shall be awarded to all
such cases.
27.3 Termination of Registration due to absence/lack of Information regarding absence
during the Semester
(i) A student must inform the Dean (SEAS), immediately of any instance of continuous
absence from classes.
(ii) If a student is continuously absent from the University for more than 21 working
days without notifying the University, his/her name will be struck off the rolls of the
University.
(iii) Such absence in the first year will render the student ineligible for re-admission. In
subsequent years, the re-admission may be permitted by the Vice Chancellor after
investigation & imposition of penalty as may be approved by the Vice Chancellor.
28. Interpretation of Regulations
In case of any dispute/difference of opinion in interpretation of these regulations or any
other matter not covered in these regulations, the decision of the Vice Chancellor shall be
final and binding.
29. Emergent Cases
Notwithstanding anything contained in the above regulations, the Chairman of the
Executive Council may, in emergent situations, take such action on behalf of the Council as
he/she deems appropriate and report it to the next meeting for its approval.
29

SECTION-V
INSTRUCTIONS AND PENALTY FOR USE OF UNFAIR MEANS
1. The salient instructions for the conduct by a student in the Examination hall shall be
printed on the cover page of the answer – book and notice boards. These may include, the
list is not exhaustive),
To Do List
(i) Be in the respective seats five minutes before the exams. You may be debarred entry
or allowed delayed entry so that you do not disturb other students.
(ii) Bring your ID card. Display it appropriately. You may be debarred from the
examination.
(iii) Leave all materials like slips of papers/mobiles/digital diaries/ study material/
revision notes etc. outside the hall. Forgetting to take out in a hurry or worry is no
excuse.
(iv) You must sit as per seating plan displayed outside the halls or notified on your
intranet.
(v) You must ensure that you sign your attendance slip before leaving the Examination
Hall.
Not to Do List
(i) Do not get late.
(ii) Do not carry unauthorized materials inside the examination hall:
(a) Short notes,
(b) Loose papers
(c) Notebooks,
(d) Mobiles,
(e) Digital diary,
(f) Do not write anything on covers.
(iii) Even if, material is not related to the examination, you will be charged for UFM.
(iv) You are not allowed to leave the hall before 30 Minutes from start of paper.
(v) Do not copy, Talk or indulge in unfair means. The report provided by the Invigilator
is final. No excuses of any kind will be listened to or accepted.
2. Any contravention of these instructions and the use of any unfair means will render the
student liable for punishment.
3. Actions By the Invigilator’s on Detecting Unfair means Case
(a) As soon as a student is suspected by the invigilator or any other authorized person of
having resorted to unfair means he/she shall immediately take possession of the
answer book along with the relevant material found with the student. The papers,
notes, books, electronic devices etc. found in possession of the student shall be duly
30

signed by the student and the invigilator, sealed and attached with the seized
answer-book in presence of the student. In case student is found to have written
something on the body part a photo of same may be taken on the web cam available
etc, if possible. In case student indulges in UFM other than possession of
unauthorized material like talking to fellow student, attempting to copy from fellow
student, allowing fellow student to copy, discussing answer with fellow student
outside the hall etc, the nature of offence must be duly recorded by the invigilator.
(b) The Invigilator In charge shall get the prescribed form (attached) for unfair means
filled and signed by the student and give his / her comments on the same, in
prescribed place.
(c) After completing all the above formalities, a fresh answer-book shall be given to the
student for completing the Examination.
(d) If the student does not hand over the relevant material and / or refuses to fill up and
sign the prescribed form, the same shall be recorded on the prescribed form. In this
case, co-Invigilator may sign as a witness to the event.
(e) No extra time will be given for completing the Examination as a result of this
procedure.
(f) After Examination is over, these answer books duly marked as I (confiscated copy)
and II (freshly issued copy) along with the material found in possession and the
prescribed form duly filled and signed by the Invigilator In charge shall be delivered
separately to the Registrar/controller of Examination.
4. Convening of Committee on Unfair Means
(a) A Committee (Standing Committee) appointed by the Vice-Chancellor shall enquire
into cases of unfair means in the Examination. Composition of the committee shall
be:
1. Dean (SOM) - Chairman
2-3. Two Professors/ Associate Professor nominated by the Vice Chancellor-
Members
4. Controller of Examinations (Member Secretary)
(b) The Committee shall thoroughly examine the cases on the basis of the material/
documents placed and give hearing to the student and the concerned Invigilator. It
shall submit its recommendations after laying down clearly the nature of the offence
to the Vice Chancellor for consideration and necessary orders.
5. What constitutes an UFM
A student necessarily need not be actively involved in cheating to be viewed as a case of
UFM. Willful or even unintentional mistake of noncompliance of instructions/guidelines for
the examination may also be charged as UFM. The acid test for the same is possession of
material or indulgence in an act which may provide unlawful gains.
31

6. Categories of Offences And Punishments
Following actions may be taken for different categories of offences enumerated below:
(A) Category 1 (Not Adhering To Guidelines): Nature of Offence
(a) A student is found talking in the Examination hall to another student.
(b) A student is found to be talking to a person outside the Examination-hall
before submission of the answer sheet e.g. while going to the wash room etc.
(c) A student has deliberately changed his/her seat in the Examination-hall
without the permission of invigilator.
Action to Be Taken: The invigilator in charge of the room/hall shall immediately take
possession of the first answer book. The student shall be informed that the first
answer sheet is being recommended to be cancelled and same may not be
evaluated. The student shall be provided with a second answer book. The first
answer-book shall be cancelled after deliberations of the UFM committee and the
second answer-book only is to be evaluated.
(B) Category 2 (Attempt to take un-lawful advantage): Nature of Offence
(a) A student is reported to have appealed to the Examiner in the answer-book.
(Examiner should report such cases to the Dean, as they may arise during
evaluation exercise).
(b) Writing the solutions of the questions on the question paper itself /electronic
device etc. during the Examination whether with or without intention to
use/circulate the same.
(c) A student is found possessing cell phone or any other item of such type or
communication gazette in the Examination hall though not established to have
used it.
(d) A student is found possessing any notes or printed unauthorized material or
notes written on any part of the body-clothes or instruments such as set
square, electronic device etc. or having notes written on chair, table, desk or
drawing board etc. during the Examination but as per assessment of invigilator
has not used the same .
(e) A student tries to/or appeals to the Invigilator for help during the Examination
Action to Be Taken: The invigilator in charge of the room/hall shall immediately take
possession of the first answer book immediately on occurrence or detection. The
student is to be provided with a fresh answer sheet. The UFM committee may award
cancellation of the concerned paper and direct for award of zero marks in the
concerned examination.
32

(C) Category 3 (Direct intent/attempt to draw un- lawful advantage) Nature of
Offence:
(a) Cheating/copying detected during evaluation of the answer sheet (Examiners
to report such cases if detected).
(a) Disrupting the smooth conduct of Examination in any way.
(b) Making use of unauthorized material like written/photocopied note/written on
the body parts, on the clothes or the desk or calculator or box. etc./ by
himself/herself or through assistance of others.
(c) Found to be consulting notes or books while being out-side the Examination
hall during the Examination hours.
(d) Found to be passing on a copy of question(s) set in the paper or solution
thereof to anyone.
(e) Found to have received help from other students or giving help to other
students through passing some written material/electronic device pertaining to
the questions set in the paper concerned.
(f) Found to be allowing other student's to copy from his/her answer book.
(g) Found communicating or attempting to communicate directly or through
someone else with the Examiner or anybody connected with the University
Examination for influencing them in the award of marks.
(h) Found to be guilty of swallowing or destroying any note or paper or any other
material found with him/her.
Action To Be Taken: The student should be awarded Fail grade in that subject. The
student may be allowed or / disallowed to appear in next supplementary
Examination of that subject.
(D) Category 4 (Direct involvement in unethical means): Nature of Offence
A student is found:
(a) In possession of a solution of a question set in the paper through the help of
any student, supervisory or ministerial staff or some other agency/person.
(b) Guilty of having made previous arrangement to obtain help in connection
with the question paper in cases not covered by the above provision.
Action to Be Taken: All Examination to be cancelled for that Term and the student to
be awarded fail grade in all courses registered for the Term. Further the student is
disallowed from appearing in supplementary examination
33

(E) Category 4 (Direct involvement in unethical means and lacking integrity): Nature of
Offence
(a) Smuggling in an answer-book, taking out or arranging to send out an answer-
book.
(b) Writing deliberately another students' roll no. in his/her answer-book.
(c) found in possession of answer-book not his/her own
(d) impersonating another candidates
(e) Allowing impersonation in any Examination.
(f) Guilty of serious misconduct in the Examination hall or obstructing
implementation the instructions of the superintendent or any of the
invigilators in the Examination hall.
(g) Using threatening or foul language etc. during the Examination.
Action to Be Taken: All Examinations of that Term to be cancelled Term and the
student to be awarded fail grade in all courses registered for the Term. Further the
student is disallowed from appearing in supplementary examination. In addition, the
student be debarred from appearing in any University Examination for a period of
one Term or expulsion from the University depending on the gravity of the offence.
(F) Category 7 (Involving other persons): Nature of Offence
Any person who is not a candidate for any Examination found committing or abetting
in committal of any of the offences mentioned above.
Action To Be Taken: To be dealt with the Vice-Chancellor in an appropriate manner
including expulsion from the University if he/she is the student of this University. In
case offender is not from the University, the legal action as may be required to be
initiated.
(G) Category 8 (Repeat/habitual offences): Nature Of Offence
Second/subsequent case(s) of UFM reported against a student in the same academic
year.
Action to Be Taken: One step higher punishment than the most severe punishment
awarded so far in all the UFM cases against him/her, including the action
corresponding to present UFM case.
7. Cases not covered by these Regulations.
To be decided by the Vice-Chancellor.
8. Unfair means / Plagiarism in Class Work
Any case pertaining to purported resorting to unfair means/ plagiarism during the Class
Work/ Quizzes/ Submission of Seminar Report/ Dissertation/ Practical's/ Laboratory
Classes/ Projects etc. shall be dealt with by the appropriate committee/ persons as
34

nominated by the Dean (SOM). If in the opinion of such committee the offence is of serious
nature, it shall be referred to the Vice Chancellor for investigation through Standing
Committee of the University. These offences could be:
(a) Which have occurred before or after the Examination, or partly before and during or
during and after the Examination;
(b) Which have been detected after the Examination/ declaration of the result/ award of
the degree;
(c) Which has been reported or detected after a research paper report/ note/
communication has been published in a Research Journal widely circulated
magazine/ Proceedings of conferences/ seminar or a monograph/ book, and or any
electronic device.
(d) The penalty in such cases of unfair means/ plagiarism which have been found to be
true and shall be recommended by the appropriate committees of the department/
University Standing Committee, as the case may be. The imposition of any such
penalty shall be at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellor, who, after considering the
full facts and the report on the matter
(i) may impose the same penalty,
(ii) may reduce the penalty, or
(iii) may enhance the penalty as recommended by the committee.
35

Proforma - UFM-1
FORM FOR UNFAIRMEANS
1. Enrolment No. : ______________________________________
2. Name of Student : ______________________________________
3. Programs/Branch/Specialization : ______________________________________
4. Year of Admission : ______________________________________
5. Venue of Examination (Hall------) : ______________________________________
6. Date of Examination : ______________________________________
7. Time __________ : From _________________ To _____________
8. Course Code : ______________________________________
9. Course Title : ______________________________________
10. Name of Invigilator(s) : ______________________________________
Details of Seized Material (Pl. Attach): (All these materials should be signed by the Invigilator of
the Examination and the student) Mobiles confiscated shall be deposited with Registrar and
returned back after down loading incriminating data
1.
2.
3.
Statement of Student:
Signature of Student
Date ____________________ Time ______________________
Statement of Invigilator: (Record circumstances of offences in brief the statement should be
definite and unambiguous.
Certified that the statement by the student was made in my presence or the student declined to
give any statement. (Cut whichever not applicable)
Name: __________________ Signature of Invigilator Date:__________ Time ____
36

SECTION-VI
PROCEDURE FOR ENQUIRIES AND PUNISHMENTS ON DISCIPLINARY CASES OF
STUDENTS
(These rules are applicable other than UFM Cases)
1. The welfare and discipline of students are two integral parts of an Institutional behavior.
Student’s behavior and discipline will therefore be assessed and will receive the same
attention as the academic work. Discipline includes the observance of good conduct and
orderly behaviour by the students of the University. All students pursuing a course of studies
at the University shall observe a code of conduct and maintain discipline and consider it
his/her duty to behave decently at all places. They must follow the rules pertaining to
discipline, as may be laid down by the Management of the University and also abide by all
rules and regulations of the University framed and notified from time to time. Students of
the University must study the Standing Orders carefully and also make themselves familiar
with these instructions, pertaining to their academic, co-curricular and other activities. The
plea of ignorance will not be entertained for any breach of orders in force from time to time.
Therefore, students must see the notices on the Notice Boards/Website/Student
information system regularly.
2. The discipline of the students will therefore be closely monitored in the campus, class
rooms, laboratories, play grounds, Mess, hostels and outside the campus in respect to
adherence to discipline norms, will be evaluated at the end of each academic year and
reflected in the grade sheet.
3. Any violation of the code of conduct or breach of any rules or regulations of the University
by any student shall constitute an act of indiscipline and shall make him liable for
disciplinary action against him. The following acts, in particular, shall constitute acts of
gross indiscipline and any student indulging in any of them shall render him/herself liable
for disciplinary action against him. The list is neither comprehensive nor complete as each
case shall be dealt with on its own merit
(i) Disobeying the teacher/officials or misbehaving in the class.
(ii) Quarrelling or fighting in any University building, hostels or in the campus amongst
themselves or indulging in any activity which amounts to ragging and or
harassment of other students
(iii) Quarrelling or fighting with a University employee or any employee of the
University mess/canteen/cafeteria/security or any other public utility
functioning in the campus.
(iv) Behaving in the University campus or outside in a manner which is indecent or
which is meant to annoy or harass the students, teacher, officers or employee of
the University.
37

(v) Visiting socially unacceptable websites, consuming liquor or banned substances like
drugs etc.
(vi) Damage to the University property.
(vii) Indulging in acts of theft, stealing and misappropriating.
(viii) Any other activity that defames the University and constitutes indiscipline. It shall
also include inciting others to do any of the aforesaid acts;
(ix) Use of mobile in the class/academic area.
(x) irregularity in attendance, persistent idleness or negligence or indifference towards
the work assigned;
(xi) Any other conduct anywhere which is considered to be unbecoming of a student
4 Procedure for Processing Cases of Indiscipline
(i) A student shall be guilty of misconduct and breach of discipline if he or she violates
any of the provisions of the standing orders issued by the University. Any case of
indiscipline received / observed shall be reported to chief Proctor who in turn may
thereafter :
(a) Dispose of the case, summarily depending upon the nature of indiscipline/
misconduct in case of minor nature. The decision to dispose summarily and the
punishment shall be forwarded to the Registrar for promulgation.
(b) Refer the case to standing Proctorial committee for enquiry.
(c) Seek Guidelines from the Vice Chancellor, for further action.
(ii) Pending enquiry, the Chief Proctor may suspend/gate a student(s), for an act of
indiscipline which is detrimental to healthy atmosphere / law & order in the
campus, if in his/her judgment a prima facie case of breach of discipline exists
against the student(s) for a period not exceeding one week. if more duration is
envisaged for investigation and disposal of the cases and student(s) need to be
suspended/gated, permission of Vice Chancellor shall be taken.
5 Procedure for Enquiry
Proctorial committee on receipt of the case/offence report shall issue a notice containing the
substance of charge/imputation or misconduct against the student(s) concerned and
requiring the student(s) to submit statement of defence within a specified period. This notice
shall also specify the date on which the student(s) will appear before the committee in
person to answer the charges. The committee will, after examination of the charged
student(s) and such other persons whose testimony may have bearing on the incident,
submit its report detailing findings and fixing responsibilities to the Chief Proctor.
6 The chief proctor thereafter shall put up his/her recommendations to the Vice Chancellor to
obtain the directions there on.
38

7 Procedure for Award of Punishment (Cases other than minor nature) .
(i) The Vice Chancellor shall consider the report of the standing proctorial committee
and recommendations of Chief Proctor and decide upon the quantum of
punishment to be awarded.
(ii) The Vice chancellor may record the punishment and dispose the case. This shall be
promulgated by the Registrar.
(iii) In case of proposed punishment of rustication or expulsion, the Registrar shall
inform the student in writing of the charges, the proposed penalty and the clauses
under which the University proposes to take action. The student will be given 5
days notice to “Show Cause” why the proposed penalty should not be imposed.
(iv) The reply if any, received shall again be placed before the Chief Proctor for views
and thereafter to Vice Chancellor, who after due consideration shall award the final
punishment.
(v) In case no reply is received by the stipulated time, it will be presumed that the
student has nothing to offer in his/her defence and the punishment proposed shall
be imposed.
(vi) Final decision on acts of indiscipline would be communicated in writing to the
concerned student with an entry in his/her personal record.
8 Guideline for Punishments for Acts of Indiscipline
The following punishments may be imposed for acts of indiscipline / misconduct for good
& sufficient reasons. The list is not exhaustive.
(i) Written Warning.
(ii) Imposition of monetary fine and warning / suspended monetary fine and warning.
A suspended fine becomes operative if the concerned student is found guilty of
another act of indiscipline during the remaining period of his/her study in the
University.
(iii) Award of negative marks from discipline group of marks to be computed for award
of disciplinary remarks as per procedure out lined below.
(iv) Any combination of (i), (ii)and/ (iii) above.
(v) Rustication/Expulsion from the University.
(vi) Suspension / expulsion from Hostel / University.
(vii) Any student who is expelled from the hostel on disciplinary ground shall forfeit the
amount deposited by him/her towards the hostel charges for the semester. No
refunds on pro-rata basis shall be entitled under any circumstances irrespective of
the date of expulsion. Student expelled for the complete semester or more shall be
required to apply afresh for the hostel accommodation
39

9 Competent Authority to Award Various Punishments
All cases of minor indiscipline shall be considered and disposed by the Chief Proctor as per
powers defined in the notification of the chief proctor. However, all cases of serious nature
shall be disposed by the Vice Chancellor after due investigation.
10 Procedure for Awarding Negative Marks from the Disciplinary Group of Marks and
calculation there-of.
(i) The in-disciplinary marks awarded at the end of each Academic Year will computed
and reflected on the Grade Sheet of Spring (even) semester as
satisfactory/Unsatisfactory/Poor.
(ii) Computation of yearly Discipline Remarks. A student shall automatically get
satisfactory grade, if no act of indiscipline is recorded against him/her.
(iii) For computation of Unsatisfactory/ Poor grade maximum marks to be deducted for
offences/ punishment awarded (as a guideline) are given in the table below. The list
is neither comprehensive nor complete as each case shall be dealt with on its own
merit and decided by the Competent Authority.
S.no. Offence/Punishment awarded Max mks to be deducted
(a) Written Warning on minor offence 05
(b) Mass bunking of class (Class less than 40%) 10
(c) Visiting socially unacceptable web site 10
(d) Minor Violation of Hostel Rules 15
(e) Socially unacceptable behavior 20
(f) Smoking/Drinking/Drug Abuse 25
(g) Violation of academic rules (Minor infringement) 15
(h) Disrespectful behavior with Teacher/Staff 20
(i) Disobedience of any Administrative Order 20
(j) Suspension from hostel/campus 60
(k) Indulging in violence 60
(l) Damage to institutional property 80
(m) Expulsion from hostel/University 80
(iv) The disciplinary remarks thereafter shall be awarded as per following accumulated
marks -
(a) Satisfactory - Upto 25
(b) Unsatisfactory - Upto 50
(c) Poor - Beyond 50
Annual computation of discipline marks shall be carried out by a committee
comprising Dean Student welfare/ Student welfare Officer and nominee of
Registrar. The committee will review the grades based on overall adherence to
discipline and conduct by the affected students and make recommendation to Vice
Chancellor for his approval.
40

(v) The discipline remarks at the end of the program(s) may be revised by a committee
constituted by the Vice Chancellor. The committee will make suitable
recommendation based on overall adherence to discipline and conduct by the
students during the entire programs.
41

SECTION-VII
STANDING ORDERS: CAMPUS & LIBRARY
General
1.1 Students of the University must study the Standing Orders carefully and also make
themselves familiar with these instructions, pertaining to their academic, co-curricular and
other activities.
1.2 Any amendments/additions to these Standing Orders will be notified through notices
displayed on notice boards and circulated in the usual manner. The plea of ignorance will
not be entertained for any breach of orders in force from time to time. Therefore,
students must see the notices on the Notice Boards/ Website/Web Kiosk regularly.
1.3 The Schedules for all academic works and for the Examinations will be notified to the
students separately by the Registrar/Academic Departments.
1.4 The Vice Chancellor is overall in charge of the academic activities including attendance and
leave of students.
1.5 Student welfare officer will deal with the welfare and discipline of all students in the
campus including Hostel and also outside the campus and will ensure maintenance of good
conduct. He/ She will be assisted by other members of faculty/ staff/ wardens as
nominated.
Conduct and Behavior
2.1 Students should attend all their classes and strictly observe class timings. They should
likewise carry out other out-door and extra-curricular duties assigned to them. Their
attendance and leave is governed by the regulations pertaining to them.
2.2 Students must give their undivided attention to their academic work and must be
respectful to their teachers and supervisors.
2.3 All students must carry I-cards with them at all times. I-card is an important document.
Loss of I-card may invite monetary fine as decided from time to time. Every student, who has
been issued the Identity Card, shall have to produce or surrender the Identity Card, as and
when required by the Proctorial Staff, Teaching and Library Staff and the Officials/security staff
of the University. The loss of the Identity Card, whenever it occurs, shall immediately be
reported in writing to the Registrar.
2.4 Students must conduct themselves with due decorum in the classes, laboratories, Library
etc. and move in an orderly and disciplined manner. They must conduct themselves in a
manner worthy of great traditions.
2.5 Students, who fail to make sufficient progress in their studies and also do not maintain the
required attendance in the classes, are liable to be debarred from appearing in the final
examination and will be awarded Fail grade.
42

2.6 If in a particular class/period more than 40% students are absent, it would be regarded as
mass absenteeism and an act of indiscipline. Disciplinary action will be taken on the
students indulging in mass absenteeism.
2.7 No student shall disobey any order issued by the University. Students must behave with
due decorum towards their fellow students.
2.8 Students should not indulge in abusive behavior/ violence of any kind with fellow students,
teaching faculty and employees of the University within or outside the University. Violence
by any student or group of students will lead to severe disciplinary action.
2.9 No meeting of the students other than those organized under the aegis of the various
recognized students activities shall be called without the prior permission in writing from
the student welfare officer.
2.10 No meeting/function within the University campus to which any outsider is invited shall be
organized nor shall any outsider address the students without the prior permission in
writing from the Vice Chancellor.
2.11 No students shall use unfair means at any of the examinations and tests or attempt or
threaten the staff to get undue advantage. Disciplinary action shall be taken against
defaulters as per the rules of the University.
2.12 Students must pay all fees and other dues on specified dates. If they do not do so, they
render themselves liable to penalties as in force from time to time.
2.13 Students must take good care of all University property. Any damage to University
property shall be viewed as indiscipline. Such student(s), in addition to facing the
disciplinary action, shall have to replace the damaged property and make good the losses
caused due to their action. Students must use the furniture and fittings with due care and
must not deface buildings, roads, furniture and fittings etc. in any manner.
2.14 Students must handle the laboratory equipment’s, instrument and machinery that they
have to use in course of their work with great care. Any damage or breakage of such
equipment etc. due to improper use of negligent handling will have to be made good by
the students concerned.
2.15 Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student found ragging shall be
expelled from the University and FIRs lodged against them as per orders of the
Honorable Supreme Court.
2.16 Mobile cellular phone may be carried by the students. However, they shall be kept in silent
mode during the classes. Violation will lead to confiscation of the mobile phone.
2.17 All the students are required to observe the decorum in the dress code (as laid down by
the University) while moving in the Administrative/Academic block including Labs &
Library on working days. Students not adhering to the described and notified dress code
may be denied entry to the University,
2.18 Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs, cigarettes, hookah etc
inside the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any violation will invoke severe penalty including
43

rustication from the Hostel/ University. Students are expected not to indulge in any of the
above mentioned taboos even outside the campus as any report of same or detection of
same on entering the campus shall be dealt equally as if such an offence has taken place
inside the Campus
2.19 The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food served or procured from
outside agency or consumed with in the University premises including guest houses. Food
with eggs as ingredient may however be consumed. Fish, chicken, Meat of any kind
however, shall not be allowed inside the campus. Further, the same shall apply to
utilization of silk on the University Campus.
Library
3.1 Students must follow the Library rules for borrowing/using/returning books. They must
show their Identity Cards when asked for. The books must be returned on or before the
due date of return of the book.
3.2 Library books should be used with great care. Tearing or folding or cutting of Library books
or making any mark on them is not permitted and shall lead to disciplinary action. Any
defect noticed at the time of borrowing books must be brought to the notice of the Library
staff immediately, otherwise the borrower may be required to replace the book by a new
copy or pay double the cost of the book.
3.3 In open access Library of the University, replacement or misplacement of books on the
shelves by the readers is not desirable. Readers should leave the book on the table after
use.
3.4 Library cards are non-transferable and they should be kept securely otherwise the
borrower shall be held responsible for the books issued against cards.
3.5 Before leaving the Library, a student should make sure of getting the books properly
issued at the counter against the card.
3.6 Personal property or books other than those belonging to the Library must be deposited at
the entrance gate.
3.7 The loss of Library books or borrowers card must be immediately brought to the notice of
the Learning Resource Manager (LRM) in writing.
3.8 Polite and courteous behavior inside the Library is expected from all the users and silence
must be observed inside the reading rooms.
44

SECTION-VIII
STANDING ORDERS FOR HOSTEL
A new student, on arrival, will report to the Hostel Warden/Administrator who will allot him/her a
room/seat in one of the Hostels after the student has paid fees and got registered.
The following are the Standing Orders for compliance by all Hostel inmates:
1. At the time of occupying the room, student must check the room furniture, fixtures,
electrical fittings etc. and sign receipt. He/she will be charged for any loss, damage done to
furniture, fixture, fittings and articles issued to him/her along with the disciplinary action if
warranted. Sketching/painting on walls is prohibited. Rooms once allocated are not to be
changed without the written permission of Competent Authority.
2. Students themselves are responsible for all their belongings. They must ensure all their
valuables including laptops are properly locked and not left outside even for short period.
They are advised to use good quality locks.
3. Students must show their ID card to the security staff every time they enter/leave Hostel
gate.
4. Inmates are required to compulsorily get their rooms cleaned by the house keeping as per
announced schedule.
5. Smoking, consumption/possession of liquor, intoxicants, drugs, cigarettes, hookah etc
inside the Campus is strictly prohibited. Any violation will invoke severe penalty including
rustication from the Hostel/ University. Students are expected not to indulge in any of the
above mentioned taboos even outside the campus as any report of same or detection of
same on entering the campus shall be dealt equally as if such an offence has taken place
inside the Campus
6. Inmates should not indulge in acts such as loud playing of musical instruments or radio or
loud singing or dancing etc. which may disturb others at study or work in the Hostels.
7. Students are not permitted to keep fire-arms or any lethal weapon with them in the Hostel
premises even though possessing a license for it.
8. Students are prohibited from keeping obscene literature/video films/CDs in their
possession. Any violation in this regard will result in severe disciplinary action.
9. Electrical appliances like electrical irons, heaters, VCD/DVD player, T.V., V.C.P. and V.C.R.
etc., are not permitted in hostel rooms.
10. Hostel inmates fiddling with the electric connections, computer cabling, outlets, fittings
and using additional electrical appliances shall be penalized, and the appliance / gadget
will be confiscated.
45

11. Lights, Fans etc. should be switched on only when needed and switched off when not
required or when going out of the room. Similarly, water taps must be closed promptly
after use. Electricity and water are scarce resource and needed to be conserved.
12. Students, unless specially permitted, will be allowed to occupy the rooms allotted to them
in their hostel only a day prior to commencement of their academic session. Likewise they
must vacate their rooms, within 3 days of the closure of their academic session. They will
render themselves liable to disciplinary action and payments at enhanced rates for any
unauthorized occupation beyond the stipulated period mentioned above.
13. Before proceeding on longer vacation, students must hand over the charge of their rooms,
the furniture and the fittings etc. to Hostel warden / Caretaker and get a receipt from him.
If a student fails to do so, the Warden / Administrator is authorized to break open a locked
room and make an inventory of the articles found therein. The University authorities shall
not be responsible for the private belongings of the students found in such rooms.
14. The Warden/ Administrator is assisted by a Supervisor/ Caretaker in day-to-day working of
the Hostels. The Hostel inmates shall refer their difficulties of whatever nature to the
Warden/ Administrator who will take necessary action. Matters related to indiscipline shall
be reported to the Warden / Administrator.
15. No furniture shall be removed from the room and used elsewhere either inside or outside
the Hostel without the permission of or under the orders of the Warden/ Administrator.
16. No student is allowed to engage private servant or keep pets.
17. Visitors including parents are not allowed to go inside the hostel rooms. Parents/
Guardians can meet their wards in the Visitor’s Lounge during the specified visiting hours
with the permission of Warden.
18. Students can be permitted to visit their Parents, Local guardians, near relatives
occasionally. All such visits shall have to be after due permission from the authorities.
19. Students are prohibited from giving shelters to any other student/ outsider in their rooms.
In case of any unauthorized shelter, the student will be liable to disciplinary action.
Unauthorized occupation/ shelter to any outsider will be reported to local administration
for suitable action.
20. All students must be present in their respective hostels as per specified times unless
specifically permitted to stay out in the night and for a specific reason in writing by the
Warden/Dean of Students Welfare.
21. Students will be charged for Boarding and Lodging beyond the semester at the rates as
decided by the management.
22. All students staying in the hostels during summer vacations shall have to abide by the
Hostel Rules in vogue.
23. Students are required to observe the mess timings religiously. They will not get entry &
food beyond the prescribed timings in the mess.
46

24. Provision items of daily use including bread, butter, biscuits etc. are available on payment
at the Tuck shop which is open as per times specified.
25. Ragging in any form is unlawful and strictly prohibited. Student found indulged in
ragging may be expelled from the Hostel as well as the University. FIR will also be lodged
against student indulging in ragging.
26. Students not returning back to their hostels within the prescribed time without the
permission from the Warden may attract disciplinary action including deduction of
disciplinary marks. The student will be expelled from the Hostel in case of repeated
offences.
27. All the students are charged Hostel fee for the semester, as such they must completely
vacate their rooms within three days of conclusion of the semester. Any stay beyond that
without written permission of a competent authority shall attract disciplinary action and
payment at enhanced rates or on rates as specified by the authority for both boarding as
well as lodging.
28. The University adopts the vegetarian eating ethics for any food served or procured from
outside agency or consumed with in the University premises including guest houses. Food
with eggs as ingredient may however be consumed. Fish, chicken, Meat of any kind
however, shall not be allowed inside the campus. Further, the same shall apply to
utilization of silk on the University Campus.
29. Further, the Procedure/Instructions for obtaining out pass shall be as below:
(i) Day out pass on working days will be issued by the Warden.
(ii) Out pass for overnight/out station leave will be issued by the Chief wardens
(iii) In case of grave emergency immediate out pass will be issued by the
Registrar/Warden.
(iv) Girl students wanting overnight out pass/out station leave are required to get
written permission of their parents/guardians in writing through an e mail to the
warden from an E mail account which is registered with the University
(v) Girl students are advised to go outside the campus in groups of minimum three for
their own safety.
(vi) In case of medical evacuation, the patient and attendants can move out on the
medical officer's advice.
(vii) No out pass is required to move out of campus on working days from 05:00 PM to
07:00 PM and on Sunday/Holidays from 09:00 AM to 07:00 PM.
(viii) All students are required to be back inside the campus by 07:00PM on all days.
(ix) The timings for the out pass as above shall be reviewed by the Administration and
communicated from time to time and shall be binding on the students
30. Students violating any of the above guidelines will face disciplinary action in which case
the decision of competent authority is final and binding.
47

