BENNETT UNIVERSITY
EXAMINATION DEPARTMENT
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR END-TERM EXAMINATION ( FOR ALL BATCHES AND PROGRAMS)
Students are expected to present their ID Card to the security guard and will be allowed entry to the
examination hall only thereafter. The ID card must also be presented for inspection by the invigilator.
Entry to the examination room will be allowed ONLY if you have your valid identity card issued by the Registrar’s Office.
You must carry your ID card for all papers during the examination. In case you have lost/misplaced it, a duplicate/
temporary ID card can be made from the Registrar's Office one week before the commencement of the examination.
You should ensure that the request is put one week in advance. The procedure is listed below.
1. Write an application to issue you a regular identity card, or a temporary identity card
2. Carry with you one passport-size photo and Rs 1000/-
3. Deposit Rs 1000 with accounts, get endorsement done from the Registrar’s Office and get a duplicate ID card.
4. In case of temporary misplacement, deposit Rs 1000 with the registry and obtain a temporary ID card. If you
find your regular ID card, the money deposited will be returned after you deposit your temporary identity card
with the Registrar’s office before the end of the examination.
5. For issuance of a temporary authorization slip from the COE office, you must carry with you a valid photo ID
proof (Aadhar card or voter ID) and visit to First floor, A block, Examination Department.
TO-DO LIST (BEFORE THE EXAM)
1. Bring your ID card to the Examination Hall and wear it around your neck on the day of exams. In
case you are not carrying your ID card, you may be debarred from the examination.
2. In case you have forgotten your ID card for the 1st time only, then report to the COE office before
the commencement of the examination and collect a temporary authorization slip for that day
only. Thereafter, no temporary authorization slip will be provided. You will not be allowed entry
into the hall without a valid ID card.
3. Please take your seat in the respective examination hall 10 minutes before the commencement of
the exams. You may be debarred entry or allowed delayed entry so that you do not disturb other
students.
4. Leave all materials like slips of papers/mobiles/ programmable calculators/ study material/ revision
notes etc., outside the hall. Forgetting to leave out these in a hurry is no excuse.
5. Wipe your hands clean, of any notes that you may have made. Similarly, clean up the calculator
covers of any written material.
6. Sit only on your assigned seat in the Examination Hall, as per the seating plan.
7. Seating arrangements shall be displayed at the examination hall entrance.
DO’S AND DONT’S (DURING THE EXAM)
• Do not act in any manner which is detrimental to maintaining order and discipline during the exam.
If a student is found misbehaving in the examination hall he /she would be seriously dealt with under
the procedure outlined in the university ordinance.
• In the examination hall, you will be under the disciplinary control of the Controller of Examinations/
Invigilator of the hall. In the event of a student disobeying the instructions of the Controller of
Examination or any Invigilator or behaving in an undisciplined or insolent manner, the student may

be removed from the hall and disallowed the day's examination. If he/she persists in misbehaviour,
he/she may be excluded from the rest of the examinations after approval from the Vice Chancellor.
• The main examination area (BLOCK- A, B, N&P ) will be closed exactly at 9.45 a.m. for the morning
examination and 1.45 p.m. for the afternoon examination.
• Entry to the examination room shall not be entertained after 10 minutes of the commencement of
the examinations.
• The duration of the end-term examination is 2 hrs./3 hrs. You will be permitted to use the
washroom only after one hour of the commencement of the examination. In case of any emergency
it will be the discretion of the hall invigilator to allow a student to use the washroom.
• You are not allowed to leave the hall before 1 hour (for 2 hrs. paper) and 1.30 hours (for 3 hrs.
paper) from the start of the examination, even if you have finished the paper.
• You are prohibited from carrying mobiles/ smart watches/electronic gadgets and programmable
calculators in the examination area (BLOCK- A, B, N & P ) on the day of examination.
Controller of Examinations

