STUDENTS’ DISCIPLINE AND CONDUCT RULES

PREAMBLE
Whereas by virtue of Bennett University Statutes, the Vice Chancellor has been vested with all the
powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to students and now in pursuance
of the same the Vice Chancellor has approved the following rules of discipline and proper conduct
among the students of the University.
1. SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
1. These Rules shall be called “Bennett University Students’ Discipline and Conduct Rules”
hereafter referred to as the ‘Rules’.
2. These Rules shall come into force with effect from the date of notification.
2. APPLICATION OF RULES
1. These rules are not meant to deny the democratic rights of the students to dissent/air their
grievances/protest in a peaceful manner.
2. Peaceful sit-ins/dharanas at a designated place with prior intimation to the university
administration will not invite any punishment under these rules.
3. These Rules shall apply to all students of the University (including parttime students)
whether admitted prior to the commencement of these Rules or after the commencement of
these Rules.
4. Any breach of discipline and conduct committed by a student inside or outside the University
Campus shall fall under the purview of these Rules.
3. Code of Conduct
:
The Code of Conduct for students shall include:
i. Observance of good conduct and orderly behavior within or outside the campus.
ii. Emulating healthy traditions of the University and developing as responsible students at
the University.
iii. Giving undivided attention to their academic work and maintaining a healthy and
congenial academic environment in the University.
4. Acts of Indiscipline and Misconduct
:
Any act of misconduct committed by a student inside or
outside the campus, which is formally reported, shall be construed as violation of discipline of
the University. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, violations of the
discipline shall include:

5. Procedures for Enquiry and Punishment:
 After receipt of a complaint (directly to the Chief Proctor or forwarded by the Vice Chancel
lor/Pro Vice-Chancellor) it is scrutinized by the Proctorial Committee to ascertain if it
pertains to the jurisdiction of Proctorial enquiry.
 Three members of the Proctorial committee will constitute the quorum for such enquiry.
The Proctorial Committee is an internal enquiry of bennett University and hence, no
other person except the Committee members is allowed to present during hearings. The
accused or complainants are not allowed to berepresented by a third party.
 Similarly, he/she cannot have an observer during the process of enquiry.
After it is ascertained that an enquiry is required, following procedure/norm is generally followed:
1. The complainant is called for a hearing and his/her deposition is recorded.
2. The accused person(s) is/are called for recording his/her statement.
3. Witnesses mentioned by both parties are listed and they are called for recording their depositions.
4. Any evidence, from security staff/University staff or other persons, who were present there and
had witnessed the incident, are called and their statements recorded.
5. A cross examination of the accused and the complainant is conducted.
6. If there is any material evidence, like audio/video tapes/paper documents etc. is available,
the same is examined. The veracity is established from the person who submits these.
7. Finally, a comprehensive report is prepared where specific charges against the accused is framed
and a show cause notice is issued.
8. The defense given by the accused persons in the show cause notice is studied and examined.
9. Finally, a report is prepared and as per the “Rules of discipline and proper code of conduct of the
University,” appropriate disciplinary action is recommended.
10. Final report and recommendations are submitted to the ProVice-Chancellor
for approval &final decision.Consequently, the award of punishment is conveyed to the student.
11. The aggrieved student has the right to appeal to Vice Chancellor gainst the punishment and Vice
Chancellor is the empowered authority to deal with appeals.
The above mentioned norms and procedures are generally followed. However, the Proctorial Committee
at its discretion can add additional norms or delete existing ones separately depending on the nature and
need of the enquiry.
i. All cases of indiscipline and misbehavior shall be referred immediately to the Deputy Proctor
directly or through the School Dean/ Dean Student Affairs (DSA)/Registrar. After a
preliminary enquiry and assessing the nature and seriousness of the act, the Deputy Proctor
shall: either recommend to the DSA/ Registrar (Ex-officio Chairman of BU Proctorial
Committee),summary dismissal of the case with minor penalty as specified for general /

classroom misconduct or escalate to University Proctorial Committee and place the facts and
evidence gathered before it.
ii. Registrar to issue the Promulgation Orders in all cases.
iii. The University Proctorial Committee Chairperson will inform Vice Chancellor /Pro Vice
Chancellor in case of all major incidents and proposed nature of P being convened and act as
per his directions.
iv. As a guideline, reported incidents of major / serious offences and which may have occurred
off- campus or where students or persons of other schools, departments or non-BU persons
may be involved or become witness; will generally be dealt by the University Proctorial
Committee. However, the availability of Proctors may also be kept in mind and on no account
should the convening of a Proctorial Committee be delayed.
v. While deciding on the composition of the Proctorial Committee to deal with a case it shall be
ensured that the person who may have initially investigated the case (like hostel warden or
member of anti-ragging squad) is not called upon as a member of the said committee. This
provision shall also apply to the Anti Ragging Committee (ARC) Disciplinary Panel and to any
other Committees formed under the rules. (However, a student making a complaint to a
member of the Proctorial Committee / Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) / ARC, etc. will
not debar such member from sitting as a member.)
vi. All Pr proceedings will be put up to the VC through Chief Proctor, after technical scrutiny by
the Deputy Proctor. Where necessary, vetting from the legal department should be done in
cases of award of major penalty by the Central Deputy Proctor or Dean Student Affairs.
vii. The Deputy Proctor will also keep all the Proctorial Committee proceedings / documents in
own custody as confidential documents.
viii. A notice for convening the Proctorial Committee indicating date, time and the venue shall be
issued (within 3 days of the offence) by the Dean Student Affairs / Deputy Proctor in
consultation with the Chairman of the Proctorial Committee (Chief Proctor) and the guilty
students shall be given an opportunity to appear before the committee for cross examination
and interrogation.
ix. The School Proctorial Committee shall hold its meeting at the latest within 5 days of the
offence and submit recommendations within the next 7 days to the University proctorial
Committee. Record of Proctorial Committee meetings and adjournments also mentioning the
reasons shall be kept by the Member Secretary of the Proctorial Committee (both at the
school and the University level).

x. During the period of inquiry, the University Proctorial Committee will be empowered to
suspend the student if in its judgment it is in the larger interest of the student community, or
the evidence / safety of witnesses is likely to get affected. (Reasons for suspension will be
stated in the Proctorial Committee proceedings.) Notwithstanding completion of the
proceedings, such suspension will be revoked as soon as feasible. The period of suspension
undergone will be considered while awarding the penalty.
xi. The Proctorial Committee is to keep a record of the proceedings and compile a report
containing all facts and evidence that has been placed before it. Such a report along with the
recommendations and punishment to be imposed is to be given to the Registrar, who would
forward the same to the Vice-Chancellor for further action (as the case may be). If the guilty
student fails to appear, the Proctorial Committee will have the right to draw its conclusion
ex parte and submit the aforesaid documents to the Registrar.
xii. The final decision, in the form of penalty letters, shall be communicated to the convicted
student(s) and to their parents by the Deputy Proctors (for School Proctorial Committee ) /
Chief proctor (for University Proctorial Committee).
xiii. The information about any disciplinary / other official matter will be shared on their official
mail ID as per records or by post / parent’s mail ID or / and postal address.
6. Appeal:
i. A student having been awarded a penalty for any act(s) of indiscipline or misconduct shall have
the right to file an appeal (in writing) for review of the decision to the Vice-Chancellor within
5 working days of the service of the order.
ii. The powers to review the major penalties imposed shall lie with the Vice-Chancellor. Powers
to review the minor penalties shall be with Chief Proctor / School Dean on one level above
principle.
iii. The Vice-Chancellor may either maintain the earlier decision, moderate or escalate the penalty
awarded. In exceptional case, it may be referred back to the Proctorial Committee for review,
if any
new submissions have been made by the student in his appeal.
iv. The decision of the Vice-Chancellor following the appeal will be final (as the case may be) and
no more appeal(s) shall be entertained thereafter.

7. CATEGORIES OF MISCONDUCT AND INDISCIPLINE
CATEGORY­I
1. All acts of violence and all forms of coercion which disrupt the normal academic and
administrative functioning of the University and/or any act which encourages, abets or
leads to disorder and violence on campus.
2. Any form of coercion, intimidation or disturbance of right to privacy of the residents of
the campus.
3. Sexual harassment of any kind which shall also include: Unwelcome sexual
proposition/advancements, sexually graphic comments of a body, unwelcome touching, patting,
pinching or leering of parts of the body or persistent offensive or unwelcome sexual jokes
and/or comments.
4. Arousing communal, caste or regional feeling or creating disharmony among students.
CATEGORY­II
1. Committing forgery, tempering with the Identity Card or University records, impersonation,
misusing University property (movable or immovable), documents and records, tearing of
pages, defacing, burning or in any way destroying the books, journals, magazines and any material
of library or unauthorized possession (without due process of issue) of library books, journals,
magazines or any other material.
2. Any form of protest by blocking university gate(s)/ entrance or exit of any of the academic
and/or administrative complexes or disrupting the movements of any member of the University
Community.
3. Furnishing false certificates or false information in any manner to the University.
4. Any act of moral turpitude.
5. Eve teasing or disrespectful behavior or any misbehavior with a girl student, woman staff
member/visitor.
6. Use of abusive, defamatory, derogatory or intimidatory language against any member of
University Community.
7. Causing or colluding in the unauthorized entry of any person into the Campus or in the
unauthorized occupation of any portion of the University premises, including halls of
residences, by any person.
8. Unauthorized occupation of the hostel room or unauthorized acquisition and use of university
furniture in one’s hostel room or elsewhere.
9. Indulging in acts of gambling in the University premises.
10. Consuming or possessing dangerous drugs or other intoxicants in the University premises.

11. Damaging or defacing, in any form, or theft of any property of the University or the property of
any member of the University Community.
12. Not disclosing one’s identity when asked to do so by a faculty member or employee of the
University who is authorized to ask for such identity.
13. Improper behavior while on an official university tour or excursion.
14. Coercing the medical staff to render medical assistance to persons not entitled for the same
or any other disorderly behavior in the Wellness Centre.
15. Blockade or forceful prevention of any normal movement of traffic, violation of security, safety
rules notified by the University.
16. Any other offence under the law of land.
17. Ragging in any form.
18. Accommodating unauthorized guests or other persons in the halls of residence.
19. Engaging in any attempt at wrongful confinement of any member of the faculty, staff, student
or anyone camping inside the campus.
20. Any intimidation or insulting behavior towards a student, staff or faculty or any other person.
21. Any other act which may be considered by the Vice Chancellor or any other competent authority
to be an act of violation of discipline and conduct.
22. Possession, use, or distribution of drugs or psychotropic substances
23. Bullying in any form whatsoever. Including cyber bullying
24. Engaging in discrimination of any sort against other students, the University employees, including
the faculty members, or employees of outsourced contractors working on the Campus, including
Sodexo staff, based on race, religion, gender, ethnicity, language, sexual orientation etc.
25. Abetting possession, use, or distribution of prohibited substance by other students through any
means, including financing.
26. Indulging in any form of gambling/betting
27. Parking of private cars on the Campus, or right outside the Campus
28. Abetting possession, use, or distribution of any kind of arms / ammunitions / weapons by
students through any means.
29. Cooking food in hostel rooms (Use of hot plates, electric cooker etc.)
30. Keeping pet/s or stray dogs; taking them inside the Hostel premises or academic block
31. Possession, me or distribution at prohibited substance/other similar products, infusing OCB
paper, chillum pipes and hookah (used for substance and other prohibited items on the Campus
32. Possession, use, or distribution of liquor/other intoxicants on the Campus OR A student found
in an inebriated condition on the Campus due to consumption of alcohol/other intoxicants.
33. Refusal to undergo breath-analyser test at the Main Gate

34. Refusal or resistance to checking of bags, wallet, luggage & eatable Items ordered from outside at
the Main Gate of the University or within U-Hall
35. Inducing workers to supply prohibited materials (tobacco/ alcohol, drugs, etc.)
36. Indecent exposure, obscene/lecherous conduct, either in a physical space or online
37. Non-cooperation with the University staff/security staff
38. Obstructing inspection of hostel rooms by the University staff/security staff
39. Using TV without authorization causing disturbance by playing lead sounds, including music
40. Unauthorized use/change of room
41. Unauthorized departure from the Campus without prior permission or issue of ‘gate’ pass
42. Unauthorized entry into the terrace of the Academic Block, student housing blocks, faculty
housing, or any other area that is out of bounds for the students.
43. Aiding unauthorized entry of outsiders into the Campus
44. Any other offence that does not fall under any of the above- mentioned categories
4. PUNISHMENT
The competent authority may impose any of the following punishments on any student found
guilty of any of the acts of indiscipline or misconduct mentioned in Category I or Category II,
as the case may be in Rule 3.
CATEGORY­ I
1. Cancellation of admission or withdrawal of degree or denial of registration for a specified
period.
2. Rustication up to 2-4 semesters period and/or declaring any part or the entire University
Campus out of bounds.
3. Expulsion.
CATEGORY II
1. Admonition/Reprimand.
2. Fine up to Rs. 10,000/-
3. Recovery of any kind, such as scholarship/fellowship, any dues, cost of damages etc.
4. In case of damaging, defacing or theft of any property of the University or the property of any
member of the University Community, cost of damaged/defaced/stolen property plus a fine
up to a maximum amount of Rs 10,000/- (Rs Ten Thousand only) may be imposed upon the
persons(s) found guilty by the Proctorial Committee.
5. Withdrawal of any or all facilities available to a student as per University Rules (such as
Scholarship/Fellowship, hostel etc.)

6. Stoppage of any or all academic processes.
7. Declaring any Halls of Residences, premises, building or the entire University Campus out
of bounds to any student.
8. Rustication up to two semesters.
5 PENALTIES ON OCCURANCE OF OFFENCES
Sr. Acts of Penalties including information to Parents/ Guardians immediately
No. Indiscipline I offence II offence III Offence Remarks
1 Cooking food in •Confiscation of Non-returnable Undertaking by The
hostel rooms & equipment, undertaking confiscation of parents to equipment
Use of Electrical by the student to hostel equipment. proctorial confiscated
appliances, administration with Written warning Committee. will be
except :- Table Fine of Rupees 1000/-. by Proctorial Confiscation of returned to
Lamp, Electrical Information to Parents Committeeand equipment. Fine
parents/Gu
blanket, by concern agency. F i n e o f R u p p e s of Rupees
ardian only.
Laptop/Mobile 5000/- 10000/- and
charger, Hair Suspension from
dryer and hostel for upto
straightener and entire academic
Desktop screen tenure of the
less than 24” student.
(inches)
2 Keeping pet/s or Undertaking by the Fine of Rupees Fine of Rupees
stray dogs; student and the parents 5000/- and 10000/- and
taking them to the hostel warning letter suspension for
inside the Hostel administration and that the student one semester.
premises or written warning by will be suspended
academic block hostel from hostel for
administaration.Inform one semester if
ation to Parents by the offence is
concern agency and fine repeated.
of Rs. 2000/-.
3 Possession, use Written warning by the Undertaking by Undertaking by
or distribution of Hostel administration. the student and student's parents.
Cigarettes/tobac Undertaking by the his parents to the Fine of Rupees
co products on student to the hostel proctorial 15000/- and
the Campus administration. Committee. suspension up to
Counselling and calling Written warning one semester.
parents to meet hostel to the student by
administration/Concer Proctorial
n authority & DSA and Committee.Couns
fine of Rupees 5000/- e l l i n g c a l l i n g
parents for a
meeting with
members of
proctorial
Committee.

Fine of rupees
10000/-
4 Possession, me Written warning by the Undertaking by Undertaking by
or distribution of Hostel administration the student and student's parents.
prohibited with information to . his/her parents to Fine of Rupees
substance/other Undertaking by the the proctorial 20000/- and
similar products, student and his/her Committee. suspension up to
infusing OCB parents to the hostel Written warning one year without
paper, chillum administration. to the student by academic
pipes and Counselling and calling Proctorial attendance.
hookah/Bong parents to meet hostel Committee.Couns Withholding of
(used for administration/concern elling calling internship/Schola
substance and authority & DSA and parents for a rship and other
other prohibited fine of Rupees 10000/-. meeting with previleges.
items) on the members of Expulsion from
Campus proctorial university.
Committee. Fine
of rupees 15000/-
.
5 a. Possession, Intimation to parents Undertaking by Undertaking by
use, or by concern agency,and the student and student's parents
distribution of written warning by the his/her parents to to Proctorial
liquor/other Hostel the proctorial Committee. Fine
intoxicants on administration/security Committee. of Rupees
the Campus / P r o g r a m m e Written warning 20000/- and
OR c o o r d i n a t o r . to the student by suspension up to
b. A student Undertaking by the Proctorial one year without
found in an student and his/her Committee.Couns academic
inebriated parents to hostel elling calling attendance.
condition on the administration. Fine of parents for a Withholding of
Campus due to 5000/- meeting with internship/Schola
consumption of members of rship and other
alcohol/other proctorial previleges. Or
intoxicants Committee. Fine Expulsion from
of rupees 10000/- university.

6 Refusal to Undertaking by the Undertaking by Fine of Rupees
undergo breath- student to the hostel the student and 20000/- and
analyser test at administration/security his/her parents to suspension up to
the Main and written warning by the proctorial one Semester
Gate/inside hostel Committee. without academic
campus. administaration/concer Written warning attendance.
n agency.Information to to the student by Withholding of
Parents by concern Proctorial internship/Schola
agency. Fine of Rupees Committee.Couns rship and other
5000/- e l l i n g c a l l i n g previleges.
parents for a Expulsion from
meeting with University.
members of
proctorial
Committee. Fine
of rupees 10000/-
and/or
suspension upto 2
weeks.
7 Damaging/steali Counselling & calling Undertaking by Suspension up to
ng University parents for a meeting the student and one year,
property with the hostel his/her parents to withholding of
including administration/concern the proctorial internship/Schola
provided by authority. Written Committee. rship and other
third party warning by hostel Written warning previleges. Or
vendors working administration/security to the student by Expulsion from
inside campus /Programme Proctorial university.
coordinator to the Committee.Couns
student and fine upto elling calling
five times the cost of parents for a
the property. meeting with
members of
proctorial
Committee. Fine
upto ten times the
cost of the
property and
suspension upto 2
weeks.
8 Refusal or Refusing entry on the Undertaking by Suspension up to
resistance to Campus/ hostel with student and one year,
checking of bags, intimation to parents his/her parents to withholding of
wallet, luggage & by concern agency. hostel internship/Schola
eatable Items administration/co rship and other
ordered from ncern agency. previleges.
outside at the
Main Gate of the
University or
Hostel blocks.

9 Inducing Intimation to parents Undertaking by Fine of Rupees
workers to and written warning to the student and 20000/-
supply the student by Hostel his/her parents to Suspension up to
prohibited administration/concern the proctorial one year,
materials agency. Undertaking by Committee. withholding of
(tobacco/ student to the hostel Written warning internship/Schola
alcohol any administration and fine to the student by rship and other
other prohibited of Rupees 10000/- . Proctorial previleges. Or
substance etc.) Committee.Couns Expulsion from
elling calling university.
parents for a
meeting with
members of
proctorial
Committee. Fine
of Rs. 15000/- and
suspension upto 2
weeks.
10 Indecent Undertaking by the Undertaking by Suspension up to
exposure, student to the Hostel the student and one year,
obscene/lechero administration/concern his/her parents to withholding of
us conduct, agency and Written the Proctorial internship/Schola
either in a warning by Hostel Committee. rship and other
physical space or administration/concern Written warning, previleges. Or
online authority to the student by Proctorial Expulsion from
with intimation to Committee, university.
parents. Calling parents for
a meeting with the
Members of the
proctorial
Committee.
Suspension for 2
weeks.
11 a. Returning late Written warning to the Blocking of gate Blocking of gate
to the Campus student by Hostel passes for 15 days passes for 30 days
Overstay after administration. with intimation to with intimation to
taking a day-out Intimation to parents parents. parents.
pass including by Hostel Undertaking by Undertaking by
returning to the administration/Securit both parent and both parent and
Campus the y. student to hostel student to
following day administration. Proctorial
OR Committee.
b. Staying in
areas within the
Campus beyond
the stipulated
time.

12 a. Non- Undertaking by the Suspension for 2 Suspension for up
cooperation with student to the weeks, calling to one year,
the University Proctorial parents for a withholding of
staff/security Committee.Written meeting with the Scholarship/Inter
staff warning, and Members of the nship/ placement
OR c o u n s e l l i n g b y P r o c t o r i a l and other
b. Obstructing proctorial Committeeand privileges. Or
inspection of Committeewith undertaking by expulsion from
hostel rooms by intimation to parents the parents to the the University
the University by concern agency. Proctorial
staff/security Committee
staff
13 Using TV Confiscation of Fine of Rupees Fine of Rupees
without equipment causing 10000/- 15000/-
authorization disturbance. Suspension for 2 Suspension from
causing Undertaking by the weeks, calling hostel, calling
disturbance by student to the hostel parents for a parents for a
playing loud administration/security meeting with the meeting with the
sounds, . M e m b ers of the Members of the
including Written warning, with proctorial proctorial
music/gaming intimation to parents Committee, and Committee.
and Playing by concern authority. undertaking by withholding of
games in hostel Fine upto Rupees the parents to the Scholarship/
which can cause 5000/- which may proctorial studentship/Inter
damage to extend up to Five times Committee. n s h i p / p l a c e m e n t
property or any the cost of the property and other
individual. damaged because of the privileges for one
activity. year.
14 Unauthorized Undertaking by Calling parents for Calling parents for
use/change of students to hostel a meeting with a meeting with
hostel room administration and Fine hostel authorities. members of
of Rupees 5000/- with Undertaking by proctorial
intimation to parents. s t u d e n t a n d C o m m i t t e e .
his/her parents to Written warning
hostel by Proctorial
administration.Wr Committee.
itten warning by Undertaking by
hostel student and
administration & his/her parents to
Fine of Rupees proctorial
1 0000/- Committee.Fine of
Rupees 15000/- &
expulsion from
hostel.
15 a. Unauthorized Undertaking by the Undertaking by Suspension for up
departure from student to Hostel the student to to one year and
the Campus administration/concern proctorial withholding of
without prior agency/programme Committee. Scholarship/

permission or Coordinator. Written Written warning studentship/Inter
issue of ‘gate’ warning by hostel by proctorial nship/ placement
pass a d m inistration/concern Committee. and other
OR a g e n c y / p r o g r a m m e Calling parents for privileges for one
b. Unauthorized Coordinator with a meeting with year. Expulsion
departure from ntimationto parents. members of from the Hostel
the events Fine of Rupees 5000/-. proctorial
organized by Blocking of gate passes Committeeand
University for 30 days. undertaking by
outside the parents to
Campus. Without proctorial
informing the Committee. Fine
relevant of Rupees
authorities 10000/- with
OR b l o cking of gate
c. An attempt to passes for entire
jump the fence/ semester.
the Campus for
unauthorized
departures.
OR
d. Forging ‘gate’
pass OR
e.Not making an
entry at the Main
Gate while
entering /
exiting the
Campus

16 a. Using Undertaking by the Calling parents Suspension for up
abusive/slank student to the hostel for a meeting with to one year and
language with administration/concern the Members of withholding of
other students, authority and Written the Proctorial Scholarship/
the University warning by concern Committee. studentship/
employees, agency with intimation Undertaking by Internship/
including the to Parents. t h e s t u d e n t a n d p l a c e m e nt and
faculty members, his/her parents to other privileges.
or employees of the Proctorial
outsourced Committee.
contractors Suspension for 2
working on the weeks,
Campus,
including any 3rd
party Vendor’s
staff.
OR
b. Sending
abusive/offensiv
e e- mails to
students and/or
the University
employees,
including the
faculty members
OR
c. Using social
media platforms
to post
abusive/offensiv
e content against
students and/or
the University
employees,
including the
faculty members
17 a. Engaging in Undertaking by the •Suspension for 2 Suspension for up
physical student to the weeks, calling to one year and
altercation Proctorial Committee. parents for a withholding of
/violence W r i t t e n w a r n i n g , a n d meeting with the Scholarship/
OR c o u n s e l l i n g w i t h M e m bers of the studentship/
b. Causing bodily intimation to parents Proctorial Internship/
harm/injury to by concern authority. C o m m i t t e e , a n d p l a c e m e n t a n d
other students, undertaking by other privileges.
the University. the parents to the Or expulsion from
Employees, Proctorial University.
including the Committee
faculty members,
or employees of

outsourced
contractors
working on the
Campus,
including any 3rd
party Vendor’s
staff.
18 Entering areas Undertaking by the Suspension for up Expulsion from
exclusively student to the to one year, University.
reserved for the proctorial Committee. withholding of
opposite sex Written warning by Scholarship/
including Proctorial Committee. studentship/Inter
washrooms and Counselling calling nship/ placement
Hostel blocks parents for a meeting and other
with members of privileges.
Proctorial
Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension upto two
weeks
19 Unauthorized Undertaking by the Suspension for up Suspension for
entry into the student to the to one-semester upto One year Or
terrace of the proctorial Committee. and withholding Expulsion from
Academic Block, Written warning by of Scholarship/ University.
hostel blocks, Proctorial Committee. studentship/
faculty housing, Counselling calling Internship/
or any other area parents for a meeting placement and
that is out of with members of other privileges.
bounds for the Proctorial
students Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension for upto
two weeks

20 a. Aiding Undertaking by the Suspension for up Suspension for
unauthorized student to the to one-semester up to one year or
entry of proctorial Committee. and withholding Expulsion from
outsiders into Written warning by of Scholarship/ University
the Proctorial Committee. studentship/
Campus/Hostel Counselling calling Internship/
OR b. Providing parents for a meeting placement and
shelter to with members of other privileges.
outsiders on the Proctorial
campus. Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension for upto
two weeks
21 a. Disobeying Undertaking by the Suspension for up Suspension for
University student to the to one-semester up to one year or
Wellness Centre proctorial Committee. and withholding Expulsion from
rules and Written warning by of Scholarship/ University
regulations Proctorial Committee. studentship/
OR C o u n s e l l i n g c a l l i n g Internship/
b. Undignified parents for a meeting placement and
conduct in the with members of other privileges.
wellness Centre Proctorial
Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension for upto
two weeks
22 Refusal to Undertaking by the Suspension for up Suspension for
produce the student to the to one-semester up to one year or
identity card at proctorial Committee. and withholding Expulsion from
the Main Written warning by of Scholarship/ University
Gate/Hostel Gate Proctorial Committee. studentship/
Counselling calling Internship/
parents for a meeting placement and
with members of other privileges.
Proctorial
Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension for upto
two weeks

23 Dismantling/shif Undertaking by the Counselling Suspension for up
ting the student to the Hostel calling parents for to one-semester
furniture placed administration/Concer a meeting with and/or
in the Hostel n agency. Written members of withholding of
blocks warning by Hostel Proctorial Scholarship/
administration/concern Committeeand studentship for
authority with Fine of undertaking by one year; and/or
Rupees 5000/- the parents to the withholding of
Proctorial Internship/
Committeewith placement and
fine of Rupees other privileges.
10000/-.
suspension for
upto two weeks
24 Matters Undertaking by the Any penalty
escalated by student to the stated under any
Sports proctorial Committee. of the above
Department Written warning by mentioned
Proctorial Committee. categories as
Counselling calling determined by
parents for a meeting Proctorial
with members of Committee.
Proctorial
Committeeand
undertaking by the
parents to the
Proctorial Committee.
Suspension for upto
two weeks
25 Abetting the Undertaking by the Any penalty
commission of student to the concern stated under the
any offence agency and written relevant category.
stated above warning by the concern
authority with
intimation to parents.

Any other Undertaking by the Any penalty
offence that does student to the proctorial stated under any
not fall under Committee. Written of the above
any of the above- warning by Proctorial mentioned
mentioned Committee. Counselling categories as
categories calling parents for a determined by
meeting with members Proctorial
of Proctorial Committee Committee.
26 and undertaking by the
parents to the Proctorial
committee. Proctorial
Committeecan apply
any of the abve
mentioned penalty /
punishment depending
on severity of the
offence

6.STATUTORY OFFENCES/VIOLATION OF THE LAW OF THE LAND (TO BE DEALT BY UNIVERSITY
PROCTORIAL COMMITTEE )
Sr. No. Acts of Indiscipline Penalties
Possession, use, or
•Expulsion from the University; and
distribution of prohibited
1 •Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District Police for
substances or
appropriate action
psychotropic substances
•Expulsion from the University; and
Ragging in any form
2 •Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District Police for
whatsoever
appropriate action
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
•Written warning, and counselling;
or
•Suspension for 2 weeks, calling parents for a meeting with
the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and undertaking by
the parents to the Proctorial Committee;
Bullying in any form
or
3 whatsoever. Including
•Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
cyber bullying
Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/or withholding of
Internship/ placement and other privileges;
or
•Suspension for up to one year, or expulsion from the
University Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District Police
for appropriate action

Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
a. Engaging in physical
•Written warning, and counselling; or
altercation/violence
•Suspension for 2 weeks, calling parents for a meeting with
OR
the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and undertaking
b. Causing bodily
by the parents to the Proctorial Committee;
harm/injury to other
or
students, the University
4 •Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
employees, including the
Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/
faculty members, or
or withholding of Internship/ placement and other
employees of outsourced
privileges; or
contractors working on
•Suspension for up to one year, or expulsion from the
the Campus, including any
University and Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District
3rd party vendor’s staff
Police for appropriate action
a. Hacking of e­mail
accounts belonging to
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee. Any
other Students, or the
penalty stated under any of the categories mentioned in the
University employees,
above Table under section 5 as determined by the proctorial
5 including the faculty
Committeeand
members
•Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District Police for
OR
appropriate action
b. Tampering with the
University IT system
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee
•Any penalty stated under any of the categories mentioned in
6 Sexual harassment the Table under Section 5, as determined by the Proctorial
Committeeand decided by ICC With intimation to Gautam
Budh Nagar District Police for appropriate action

Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
Engaging in •Written warning, and counselling;
discrimination of any sort or
against other students, •Suspension for 2 weeks, calling parents for a meeting with
the University employees, the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and undertaking by
including the faculty the parents to the Proctorial Committee;
members, or employees of or
7
outsourced contractors •Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
working on the Campus, Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/or withholding of
including any 3rd party Internship/ placement and other privileges;
vendor’s staff, based on or
race, religion, gender, •Suspension for up to one year, or expulsion from the
ethnicity, language, etc. University and Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District
Police for appropriate action
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
•Written warning, and counselling; or
•Suspension for 2 weeks, calling parents for a meeting with
Abetting possession, use,
the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and undertaking
or distribution of
by the parents to the Proctorial Committee; or
prohibited substance by
8 •Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
other students through
Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/or withholding of
any means, including
Internship/ placement and other privileges; or
financing
•Suspension for up to one year, or expulsion from the
University and Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District
Police for appropriate action
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
•Written warning, and counselling;
or
•Suspension for 2 weeks, calling parents for a meeting with
a. Indulging in any form
the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and undertaking by
of gambling/betting
the parents to the Proctorial Committee;
OR
or
b. Using the University
9 •Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
infrastructure to provide
Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/or withholding of
any assistance/ support to
Internship/ placement and other privileges;
any form of
or
gambling/betting
•Suspension for up to one year, or expulsion from the
University and
•Intimation to Gautam Budh Nagar District Police for
appropriate action

a. Lending of Identity
Card/ codes /access
univerty Apps for entry
into campus/hostel/
dining hall for meals Or
taking a dayscholar to an
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee
area where they are not
•Any penalty stated under any of the categories mentioned in
permitted, without a
10 the Table under Section 5, as determined by the Proctorial
written authorization
Committee. Fine of Rupees 5000/- on student who has lended
from the University
and the one who has used.
authorities
OR
b. Causing public nuisance
in the neighborhood,
thereby triggering the
criminal justice system
Undertaking by the student to the Proctorial Committee; and
•Written warning, and counselling, calling parents for a
Parking of private cars on meeting with the Members of the Proctorial Committee, and
11 the Campus, or right undertaking by the parents to the Proctorial Committee;or
outside the Campus •Suspension for up to one-semester and/or withholding of
Scholarship/ studentship for one year; and/or withholding of
Internship/ placement and other privileges.
7. GENERAL
1. No punishment shall ordinarily be imposed on a student unless he/she is found guilty of the
offence for which he/she has been charged by a proctorial or any other inquiry after following
the normal procedure and providing due opportunity to the student charged for the offence to
defend himself/herself.
2. In case the Vice Chancellor or any competent authority is of the opinion that on the basis of the
available material and evidence on record, a prima facie case exists against a student, s/he
may order suspension of the student including withdrawal of any or all facilities available a
to bona fide student pending proctorial or any other inquiry.
3. Notwithstanding any punishment mentioned in Rule 4, the Vice Chancellor may keep in view
the gravity/nature of misconduct/act of indiscipline, the manner and the circumstances in
which the misconduct/indiscipline has been committed, award a punishment in excess of or
less than or other than what has been mentioned thereon for reasons to be recorded.
8. INTERPRETATION
In case any dispute arises with regard to the interpretation of any of these Rules, the matter
shall be referred to the Vice Chancellor, whose decision thereon shall be final.

