STUDENTS CODE OF CONDUCT
BENNETT UNIVERSITY

INTRODUCTION
This Code shall apply to all kinds of conduct of students that occurs on the University premises including in
University sponsored activities, functions hosted by other recognized student organizations and any off-
campus conduct that has or may have serious consequences or adverse impact on University’s Interests or
reputation.
At the time of admission, each student must sign a statement accepting this Code and by giving an undertaking
that he / she shall be regular and must complete his / her studies in the University.
In the event, a student is forced to discontinue studies for any legitimate reason, such a student may be relieved
from the University subject to written consent of the Deans.
As a result of such relieving, the student shall be required to clear pending hostel / mess dues and if a student
had joined on a scholarship, the said grant shall be revoked.
University believes in promoting a safe and efficient climate by enforcing behavioral standards. All students
must uphold academic integrity, respect all persons and their rights and property and safety of others; etc.
Code of Conduct Guidelines:
All students must deter from indulging in any and all forms of misconduct including partaking in any activity
off-campus which can affect the University’s interests and reputation substantially.
The various forms of misconduct include:
1. Any act of discrimination (physical or verbal conduct) based on an individual’s gender, caste, race,
religion or religious beliefs, colour, region, language, disability, or sexual orientation, marital or family
status, physical or mental disability, gender identity, etc.
2. Intentionally damaging or destroying University property or property of other students and/ or faculty
members.
3. Any disruptive activity in a classroom or in an event sponsored by the University.
4. Unable to produce the identity card, issued by the University, or refusing to produce it on demand by
campus security guards.
5. Participating in activities including –
 Organizing meetings and processions without permission from the University.
 Accepting membership of religious or terrorist groups banned by the University / Government of
India.
 Unauthorized possession, carrying or use of any weapon, ammunition, explosives, or potential
weapons, fireworks, contrary to law or policy.
 Unauthorized possession or use of harmful chemicals and banned drugs.
 Possession / consumption of tobacco products on the campus of the University.
 Possessing, consuming, distributing, selling of alcohol in the University and / or throwing empty
bottles on the campus of the University.
 Parking a vehicle in a no parking zone or in area earmarked for parking other type of vehicles.
 Rash driving on the campus that may cause any inconvenience to others.
 Not disclosing a pre-existing health condition, either physical or psychological, to the Chief Medical
Officer which may cause hindrance to the academic progress.
 Theft or unauthorized access to others’ resources.
 Misbehaviour during any activity of the University.
 Engaging in disorderly, lewd, or indecent conduct, including, but not limited to, creating unreasonable
noise; pushing and shoving; inciting or participating in a riot or group disruption at the University.

 Students are expected not to interact, on behalf of the University, with media representatives or invite
media persons on to the campus without the permission of the University authorities.
 Students are not permitted to either audio or video record lectures in classrooms or actions of other
students, faculty, or staff without prior permission.
 Students are not permitted to provide audio and video clippings of any activity on the campus to
media without prior permission.
 Students are expected to use the social media carefully and responsibly. They cannot post derogatory
comments about other individuals from the University on the social media or indulging in any such
related activities having grave ramifications on the reputation of the University.
 Theft or abuse of the University computers and other electronic resources such as computer and
electronic communications facilities, systems, and services which includes unauthorized entry, use,
tamper, etc. of University property or facilities, private residences of staff / professors etc. offices,
classrooms, computers networks, and other restricted facilities and interference with the work of
others is punishable.
 Damage to, or destruction of, any property of the University, or any property of others on the
University premises. Every student is responsible to maintain the University-issued property in good
condition. In case of loss, vandalism, or exceptionable damage to the University property, the student
will be liable to pay charges including fines as may be prescribed under the policies.
 Making a video / audio recording, taking photographs, or streaming audio / video of any person in a
location where the person has a reasonable expectation of privacy, without that person’s knowledge
and express consent.
 Indulging in any form of Harassment which is defined as a conduct that is severe and objectively, a
conduct that is motivated on the basis of a person’s race, colour, national or ethnic origin, citizenship,
sex, religion, age, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, marital status, ancestry, physical or
mental disability, medical condition.
6. Students shall refrain from verbal, non-verbal and/or physical misconduct of a sexual nature in
their interactions with other students, Faculty, other employees and visitors at the University. The
University has a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment.
The University fully complies with ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013’ passed by the Government of India, and is committed to create a
work environment that is free from sexual harassment of any kind, whether verbal, physical or visual. The
University policy provides guidelines for prompt redressal of complaints related to sexual harassment
including expulsion/termination of the offender and/or filing appropriate FIRs for the offense.
For more information on the Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy, please visit:
https://www.Bennett.edu.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Sexual-Harrasment-and-gender-sensitization-IC-
Rev-2.pdf
7. Students, both boys and girls, are expected to come to the University decently dressed up. They are
expected to adhere to the cultural values and ethos of the University.
8. Students are expected to be punctual to classes. Latecomers will be admitted only in exceptional cases
and with the permission of the HODs.
9. Loitering on verandahs, corridors, staircase and other passages is discouraged as it disturbs the academic
atmosphere in the campus. Strict action will be initiated against students who are found unnecessarily near
the canteens, hostel blocks, playgrounds and other such places inside the University campus.
10. While inside the class, students are expected to avoid unnecessary gossip, as this would disturb their focus
and attention, besides causing nuisance to the concerned faculty.
11. Students are expected to read all the circulars put up on the Notice Board, and act accordingly.
12. Use of cell phones by students inside the classrooms, whether the classes are on or not, is strictly
prohibited.

13. Possession of cell phones inside the examination hall is strictly banned. Bringing and keeping cell phones,
cash and other valuables in their bags at the time of University examinations will be at students' own risk.
College authorities cannot help in cases of theft and consequent loss. Students are advised not to bring
cell phones and other valuables at the time of University examinations.
14. Malpractices/Cheating during test/examination or knowingly furnishing false information are prohibited
and strictly dealt with.
15. Students shall not involve in any form of ragging inside or outside the University campus. Ragging in any
form is a serious offence and those found indulging in it will be summarily expelled from the College as
per the directions of the Government. Do not rag and get ragged. All instances of ragging, including eve-
teasing, whether inside or outside the campus, must be brought to the notice of the competent authorities,
either in writing or oral. The University has implemented systems and procedures to actively comply
with the orders of the Honorable Supreme Court and the UGC Rules of 2016. For more details on the
Anti-ragging Policy, please visit:
https://www.bennett.edu.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Ragging-Policy.pdf
16. Boys and girls are expected to observe norms of dignity and maturity in their inter-relationships and
conducts.
17. Students are strictly forbidden from participating in political agitations of all kinds.
18. If a student attends any political meeting or engages in political agitation and conducts himself/herself in
a way that is detrimental to the corporate life or functioning of the College, severe action will be taken.
The VC is empowered to expel or suspend the student or refuse issuing all or some of the certificates due
to him/her.
19. Students should not resort to any method of protest for whatever reason. They should highlight their
problems and issues to the Grievance Redressal Cell and the VC for getting the grievances redressed.
20. As part of healthy living, only vegetarian food is served in University. Consumption of any non-
vegetarian food is discouraged on Company premises.
21. Hostel Discipline: Rules and regulations are laid down for conduct in Hostels has to be strictly followed
by each student. More information on hostel guidelines is available at https://www.Bennett.edu.in/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/HostelRules201117.pdf
Process of Disciplinary Action and Appeal:
 If there is a case against a student for a possible breach of code of conduct, then the Disciplinary
Committee will recommend a suitable disciplinary action who shall inquire into the alleged violation and
accordingly suggest the action to be taken against the said student.
 The committee may meet with the student to ascertain the misconduct and suggest one or more of the
following disciplinary actions based on the nature of misconduct.
 WARNING - Indicating that the action of the said delinquent student was in violation of the Code
and any further acts of misconduct shall result in severe disciplinary action.
 RESTRICTIONS - Reprimanding and Restricting access to various facilities on the campus for a
specified period of time.
 COMMUNITY SERVICE - For a specified period of time to be extended if need be. However,
any future misconduct along with failure to comply with any conditions imposed may lead to severe
disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion.
 EXPULSION - Expulsion of a student from the University permanently. Indicating prohibition
from entering the University premises or participating in any student related activities or campus
residences etc.
 MONETARY PENALTY - May also include fines and/or suspension or forfeiture of scholarship
/ fellowship for a specific time period.

 SUSPENSION - A student may be suspended for a specified period of time which will entail
prohibition on participating in student related activities, classes, programs etc. Additionally, the
student will be forbidden to use various University facilities unless permission is obtained from the
Competent Authority. Suspension may also follow by possible dismissal, along with the following
additional penalties.
a) Ineligibility to reapply for admission to the University for a period of three years.
b) Withholding the grade card or certificate for the courses studied or work carried out.
 APPEAL: If the delinquent student is aggrieved by the imposition of any of the aforementioned penalties,
he / she may appeal to the Vice Chancellor. The VC may decide on one of the following:
 Accept the recommendation of the committee and impose the punishment as suggested by the
Committee or modify and impose any of the punishments as stipulated in this Code which is
commensurate with the gravity of the proved misconduct.
 Refer the case back to the committee for reconsideration. In any case the VC’s decision is final and
binding in all the cases where there is a possible misconduct by a student.

