BENNETT UNIVERSITY
GREATER NOIDA
Procedure to be adopted by students in case of failing to appear in any of the above specified
Examination(s).
Following procedure shall be adopted for establishing genuineness of the case.
(A) Action by the student (Medical Cases)
(i) They should report absence from the Examination(s) by fastest possible means to
the Registrar/controller of Examination. It could be email or written
communication by speed post or sent by hand through any means. In case of
Hosteller’s, if a student falls sick while residing in the hostel, he/she should seek
advice of the University Medical Officer.
(ii) The said report should preferably be sent prior to the Examination, but not
later than 5 days after the last date of the said Examination.
(iii) The student should on rejoining;
(a) Report to the University Medical Officer with complete medical documents to
include referral/Prescription slip of the doctor specifically indicating the
disease and medicine prescribed, investigation/Lab reports and discharge slip
in case of admission should be provided,
(b) Obtain the views of the UMO on the genuineness of the case on the proforma
available with the Medical Officer and submit the documents along with the
proforma with remarks of the University Medical Officer to the
Registrar/controller of Examination, not later than 5 days after the last date of
Examination.
(iv) In case delay beyond 5 days is anticipated the student should arrange for the
medical documents to be sent to the University Medical Officer by hand through
a friend / relative etc. and get the said genuineness proforma filled-up and deposit
the same with the Registrar/controller of Examination.
(v) No request later than 5 days after the last date of Examination shall be accepted
for reasons of ignorance or any other reasons.
(B) Action by students (any other reason)
In case the student has fails to appear in the Examination due to any genuine reasons
other than medical cases and approved academic leave, prior written sanction of such
leave is mandatory by Dean (SOL) and the same shall be forwarded to Vice Chancellor.
No post facto requests shall be accepted in any case. The approval should be deposited
with the Registrar /Controller of Examination before the Examination.

(C) Approving genuineness in each case is prerogative of the Vice Chancellor
and student shall have no right to appeal on the same. Therefore, student
should not make an assumption that reporting sick and obtaining the slip for
rest etc. from the Medical Authorities including University Medical Officer is
an adequate reason to exempt them from the examination.
Supplementary Examination
The supplementary examinations shall be held twice in an academic year for each
commiserating semester i.e. January for Odd semester and June/July for the Even
semester, respectively. A student may avail second chance of supplementary
examination i.e. in semester immediately succeeding first supplementary exam.
Eligibility Students with ‘F’ grade are eligible to appear in the Supplementary
Examination/second supplementary.
Conduct
(i) Supplementary Examinations shall be held twice in an Academic Session
i.e. in Jan (for odd semester) and June/July (for Even semester). The eligible
students shall be required to avail the first supplementary chance, immediately
after the commiserating semester. The 2nd supplementary chance shall be
available in the next immediate semester which follows the first chance. e.g.
a student failing in Odd semester shall be required to take first supplementary
in Jan and may avail the 2nd chance along with supplementary examination of
the following Even semester. The dates of examinations shall be announced in
the Academic Calendar. The supplementary examination shall be conducted
under COE. The list of eligible students shall be circulated by registrar, to
enable registration by students.
(ii) The Supplementary Examination shall be of the same duration as end term
examination.
(iii) The Supplementary Examinations will cover, the entire syllabus, covered in
the semester.

